‘THE CORPORATION OF THE CITY OF BROCKVILLE
By-law No. 062-2014

A By-law to Establish Development Charges
for the Corporation ofthe City of Brockville

WHEREAS subsection 2(1) of the Development Charges Act, 1997 c. 27 (hereinafter called “the
‘Act") provides that the council of a municipality may pass By-laws for the imposition of development
charges against land for increased capital costs required because of the need for services arising from
development in the area to which the by-law apples;

‘AND WHEREAS the Council of the Corporation of the City of Brockville ("the City’) has given
Notice on April 24, 2074 according to section 12 of the Development Charges Act, 1997, ofits intention
to pass a by-law under Section 2 of the said Act;

AND WHEREAS the Council of the City has heard all persons who applied to be heard no
matter whether in objection to, or in support of, the development charge proposal at a public meeting
held on May 21, 2014;

AND WHEREAS the Council of the City had before it @ report entitled Development Charge
Background Study dated May 6, 2014 (as amended) prepared by Watson & Associates Economists
Ud, wherein itis indicated that the development of any land within the City will increase the need for
services as defined herein;

[AND WHEREAS the Council of the City on July 22, 2014 approved the applicable Development
‘Charge Background Study, as amended, inclusive of the capital forecast therein, in which certain
recommendations were made relating to the establishment of a development charge policy for the City,
pursuant to the Development Charges Act, 1997;

AND WHEREAS the Council of the City on July 22, 2014 determined that no additional public
‘meeting was required to be held as part ofthe approval process.

NOW THEREFORE THE COUNCIL OF THE CORPORATION OF THE CITY OF BROCKVILLE
ENACTS AS FOLLOWS:

1. DEFINITIONS

In this by-law,

1. “Act! means the Development Charges Act, 1997, ¢. 27;

2. ‘administration service’ means any and all developmentelated studies carried out by the
‘municipality which are with respect to eligible services for which a development charge by-law may
'be imposed under the Development Charges Act, 1997.

3. ‘accessory use" means where used to describe a use, building, or structure that the use, building or

structure is naturally and normally incidental, subordinate in| purpose of floor area or both, and
exclusively devoted to a principal use, building or structure;

City of Brockville
By-law No, 062-2014, Development Charges Page 2

4. “agricultural use" means a bona fide farming operation;

65. “apartment unit” means any residential unit within a building containing three or more dwelling units
where access to each residential unit s obtained through a common entrance or entrances from the
street level and the residential units are connected by an interior corridor,

6. "bedroom" means a habitable room larger than seven square metres, including a den, study, or
‘other similar area, but does nat include a living room, dining room or kitchen;

7. "benefiting area” means an area defined by map, plan or legal description in a frontending
‘agreement as an area that will receive a beneft from the construction of a service;

8. “board of education’ means a board defined in ss. 1(1) of the Education Act;
8. “Building Code Act” means the Building Code Act, 1992, S.0. 1992, ¢ 23, as amended;

410. capital cost” means costs incurred or proposed to be incurred by the municipality or a local board
‘thereof dietly or by others on behalf of, and as authorized by, the municipality or local board,

to acquire land or an interest in land, including a leasehold interest;

to improve land;

10 acquire, lease, construct or improve buildings and structures;

10 acquire, lease, construct or improve facilities inciuding,

i. “roling stock with an estimated useful life of seven years or more,

ji furniture and equipment, other than computer equipment, and

ii materials aequited for circulation, reference or information purposes by a library board
‘as defined in the Pubic Libraries Act, R.. 0. 1990, ¢. 57,

fe. to undertake studies in connection with any of the matters referred to in clauses a to d;

f. to complete the development charge background study under Section 10 of the Act; and

interest on money borrowed to pay for costs in a’ to "a"

required for provision of services designated inthis by-law within or outside the municipality

11."commercial” means any use of land, structures or buildings for the purposes of buying or selling
‘commodities and services, but does not include industrial or agricultural uses, but does include
hotels, motels, motor inns and boarding, lodging and rooming houses;

412. "Counci means the Council ofthe City of Brockville;

13. “development” means the construction, erection or placing of one or more buildings or structures on
land or the making of an addition or alteration to a building or structure that the effect of increasing
the size of usabilty thereof, and includes redevelopment,

14, “development charge" means a charge imposed pursuant to this By-law,

18. “dwelling unt” means any part ofa building or structure used, designed or intended to be used as

domestic establishment in which one or more persons may sleep and are provided with culinary
and sanitary facilities for their exclusive use;


City of Brockville
By-law No, 062-2014, Development Charges Pages

16. “existing” means the number, use and size that existed as ofthe date this by-law was passed,

17."Grade" means the average level of finished ground adjoining a building or structure at all exterior
walls,

18 “gross floor area’ means.

‘a. Inthe case of a residential building or structure, the total area of all floors above grade of a
dwelling unit measured between the outside surfaces of exterior wals or between the outside
surfaces of exterior walls and the centre line of party walls dividing the dwelling unit from any
‘ther dwelling unit or other portion of a building: and

in the case of a non-residential building or structure, or in the case of a mixed-use building or
structure in respect of the non-residential portion thereof, the total area of all bulding floors
‘above or below grade measured between the outside surfaces of the exterior walls, or
between the outside surfaces of exterior walls and the centre line of party walls dividing a non-
residential use and a residential use, except for:

|. a room or enclosed area within the building or structure above or below that is used
‘exclusively forthe accommodation of heating, cooling, ventilating, electrical, mechanical or
telecommunications equipment that service the building:

li. loading facilites above or below grade; and

Ti, @ part ofthe building or structure below grade that is used for the parking of motor vehicles,
(oF for storage or other accessory use;

19."industial” means lands, buildings or structures used or designed or intended for use for
manufacturing, processing, fabricating or assembly of raw goods, warehousing or bulk storage of,
‘goods, and includes office uses and the sale of commodities to the general public where such uses
‘are accessory to an industrial use, but does nat include the sale of commodities to the general
public through a warehouse club;

20. institutional’ means land, buildings, structures or any part thereof used by any organization, group
‘association for promotion of charitable, educational or benevolent objectives and not for profit or
gain;

21. Local Board’ means a schoo! board, public utility, commission, transportation commission, public
library board, board of park management, local board of health, board of commissioners of police,
planning board, or any other board, commission, committee, body oF local authonty established or
‘exercising any power or authority under any general or special Act with respect to any of the affairs
‘r purposes, including school purposes, of the municipality or any part or pars thereof,

22. “local services’ means those services, facilities or things which are under the jurisdiction ofthe City
Cf Brockville and are related to a plan of subdivision or within the areato which the plan
‘relates in respect ofthe lands under Sections 41, 51 or 53 of the Planning Act, R.S.O. 1990, Chap.
P.13, as amended, or any successor thereof,

23, “multiple dwellings’ means all dwellings other than single-detached, semi-detached and apartment
unit dwellings;

24. “Municipality” means The Corporation of the City of Brockville;

City of Brockville
By-law No. 062-2014, Developmert Charges Page 4

25. "non-profit housing” means housing which is or is intended to be offered primarily to persons or
‘groups of persons of low income and which is owned or operated by:

‘a. a non-profit corporation being @ corporation, no part of the income of which is payable to or
‘otherwise available for the personal benefit of a member or shareholder thereof; or

'b. a non-profit housing co-operative having the same meaning as in the Cooperative Corporations,
‘Act, R.S.0. 1990, ¢. €.36, a6 may be amended from time to time,”

26. "non-residential use" means a building or structure of any kind whatsoever used, designed or
intended to be used for other than a residential use;

27. "Official Plan’ means the Official Pian adopted forthe municipality,

‘amended and approved;

28."owner" means the owner of land of a person who has made application for an approval for the
<development of land upon which a development charge is imposed;

29.-Planning Act” means the Planning Act, 1990, R.S.O. 1990, cP.13, as amended;

30. “rate” means the interest rate established weekly by the Bank of Canada based on Treasury Bils
having a term of 91 days;

31, "regulation" means any regulation made pursuant to the Act;

22. “residential dwelling" means a building, occupied or capable of being occupied as a home,
residence of sleeping place by one or more persons, containing one or more dweling units but not
including motels, hotels, tents, truck campers, tourist trailers, mobile camper trailers or boarding,
lodging or rooming houses;

33. “residential use" means the use of a building or structure or portion thereof for one or more dweling
Unis. This also includes a dwelling unit on land that is used for an agricultural use;

34.“row dwelling” means @ building containing three or more attached dwelling units in a single row,
‘each of which dwelling units has an independent entrance from the outside and is vertically
Separated from any abutting dwelling unit;

35. “semi-detached dwelling” means a dweling unit in a residential building consisting of two dwelling
Units having one vertical wall or one horizontal wall, but not other parts, attached or another
dweling unit where the residential unit are not connected by an interior corido

36. service” means a service designed in Schedule “A" to this By-law, and "services" shall have a
‘corresponding meaning:

37, "servicing agreement’ means an agreement between a landowner and the Municipality relative to
the provision of municipal services to specified land within the Municipality;

38. "single detached dwelling” means a completely detached building containing only one dweling unt.

City of Brockvile
By-law No. 062-2014, Development Charges Page 5

39.*Zoning By-Law" means the Zoning By-Law of the Municipality or any successor thereof passed
pursuant to Section 34 of the Planning Act, §.0, 1998.

4. DESIGNATION OF SERVICES.

1.1 The categories of services for which development charges are imposed under this By-law are
‘8 folows.

Roads and Related Services;
Indoor Recreation Services;
‘Administration Services;
Water Services; and
Wastewater Services.

2. APPLICATION OF BY-LAW RULES.
2.1 Development charges shall be payable in the amounts set outin this By aw where:

the lands are located in the area described in section 2.2; and
. the development ofthe lands requires any of the approvals set out in subsection 2.4

‘Area to Which By-law Applies:

2.2 Subject to section 2.3, this By-1aw applies to all lands in the City of Brockville whether or not the
land of use thereof is exempt from taxation under s. 13 or the Assessment Act.

23. Notwithstanding clause 22 above, this by-law shall not apply to lands that are owned by and.
used for the purposes of:

the City of Brockville or a local board thereof; or
b. aboard of education;
Anprovals for Development

24 a. Development charges shall be imposed on all lands, buildings or structures that are
developed for residential or non-residential uses ifthe development requires:

|. the passing of a zoning by-law or of an amendment to a zoning by-law under section 34
of the Planning Act:

the approval of a minor variance under section 45 ofthe Planning Act:

‘a conveyance of land to which a by-law passed under subsection 50(7) of the Planning

‘Act applies;

iv. the approval of a plan of subdivision under section 51 of the Planning Act;

a consent under section 53 ofthe Planning Act

Vi the approval of a description under section 50 of the Condominium Act, R.S.0. 1990,
Chap. €.26, as amended, or any successor thereof; or

Vil. the issuing of a permit under the Building Code Actin relation to a bulding or structure.


City of Brockville
By-law No, 062-2014, Development Charges Page 6

No more than one development charge for each service designated in subsection 21 shal
be imposed upon any lands, buldings or structures to which this By-iaw apples even though
{wo oF more of the actions described in subsection 2.4(a) are required before the lands,
buldings or structures can be developed

Despite subsection 2.4(a), if two or more of the actions described in subsection 3.4a occur
at different times, addtional development charges shall be imposed i the subsequent action
hhas the effector increasing the need for services.

Exemptions

25

28

27

28
2a1

282

29

[Notwithstanding the provisions of this By-law, development charges shall not be imposed with
respect to:

‘2. an enlargement to an existing dwelling unit
one oF two additional dwelling units in an existing si
one additional dwelling unit in any other existing residential buiaing;

Notwithstanding section 2.5(b), development charges shall be Imposed ifthe total gross floor
‘area of the additional one or two units exceeds the gross floor area of the existing dwelling una.

‘Notwithstanding section 2.5, development charges shall be imposed if the additional unt has a
‘gross floor area greater than

iL in the case of a semi-detached or row dwelling, the gross floor area ofthe existing dweling
nit; and

Ji inthe case of any other residential building, the gross floor area ofthe smallest dwelling unit
Contained inthe residential building,

Exemption for industrial Development:

Notwithstanding any other provision of this by-law, no development charge is payable with
respect fo an enlargement of the gross floor area of an existing industrial building where the
{9F08s floor area is enlarged by 50 percent or less,

If the gross floor area of an existing industrial building is enlarged by greater than 60 percent,
the amount of the development charge payable in respect of the enlargement is the amount of
the development charge that would otherwise be payable mutiplied by the fraction determined
28 follows:

11. determine the amount by which the enlargement exceeds 50 percent ofthe gross floor area
before the enlargement;
2. divide the amount determined under subsection 1 by the amount of the enlargement

For the purpose of section 2.8 herein, “existing industrial building” is used as defined in the
Regulation made pursuant tothe Act

City of Brockvile
By-law No. 062-2014, Development Charges Page?

240 Other Exemptions:

2.10.1 Notwithstanding any other provision of this by-law, no development charge
respect to industrial development

payable with

2.10.2 Notwithstanding any other provision of this by-law, no development charge is payable with
respect to a new non-profit housing project that:

‘8, has been approved to receive funding from the Government of Canada or the Province of
Ontario (including Crown Corporations) or a municipal govenment/agency under an
‘affordable housing program or has been approved by the City of Brockvile or the United
Counties of Leeds and Grenville;

such affordable housing project is not eligible for funding development charge liabilities from
the Government of Canada or the Province of Ontario (including Crown Corporations).”

‘Amount of Charges

Residential

2.11 The development charges set out in Schedule B shall be imposed on residential uses of lands,
buildings oF structures, including a dweling unit accessory to a non-residential use and, in the
ccase of a mixed use building or structure, on the residential uses in the mixed use buiding or

structure, according to the type of residential unit, and calculated with respect to each of the
Services according to the type of residential use.

‘Non-Residential

2.42 The development charges described in Schedule B to this by-law shall be imposed on non-
residential uses of lands, buldings or structures, and, in the case of a mixed use buiding or
structure, on the non-residential uses in the mixed use bulling or structure, and calculated with
respect to each ofthe services according tothe total floor area ofthe non-residential use.

‘Reduction of Development Charges for Redevelopment

243 Despite any other provisions ofthis Bylaw, where, as a result of the redevelopment of land, a
building or structure existing on the same land within 60 months prior to the date of payment of
‘development charges in regard to such redevelopment was, oF isto be demolished, in whole or
in par, oF converted from one principal use to another principal use on the same land, in order
to facilitate the redevelopment, the development charges otherwise payable with respect to
Such redevelopment shall be reduced by the following amounts:

4. In the case of a residential bulding or structure, or in the case of a mixed-use building or
structure, the residential uses in the mixed-use building or structure, an amount calculated
‘by multiplying the applicable development charge under subsection 2.11 by the number,
according to type, of dwelling units that have been or will be demolished or corwerted to
‘another principal use; and

City of Brockville
By-law No, 062-2014, Development Charges Page 8

©. in the case of a non-residential building or structure or, in the case of mixed-use building or
structure, the non-residential uses in the mixed-use bulding or structure, an amount
calculated by muftiplying the greater of the applicable development charges under
subsection 2.12 by the gross floor area that has been or will be demolished or converted to
‘another principal use;

provided that such amounts shall not exceed, in total, the amount of the development charges
‘otherwise payable with respect to the redevelopment.

‘Time of Payment of Development Charges

2.14 Development charges imposed under this By-law are calculated, payable, and collected upon
issuance of a building permit for the development.

245 Despite sections 2.14, Council from time to time, and at any time, may enter into agreements

providing for all or any part of a development charge to be paid before or afer it would
‘otherwise be payable, in accordance with section 27 of the Act.

3. PAYMENT BY SERVICES

3.1 Despite the payment required under subsections 2.11 and 2.12, Council may, by agreement,
ive a credit towards a development charge in exchange for work that relates to a service to
Which a development charge relates under this By-law.

4. INDEXING.
44 Development charges imposed pursuant to this By-law shall be adjusted annually, without

‘amendment to this By-law, on the anniversary date of the bylaw, in accordance with the
proscribed index in the Act

8. SCHEDULES
5.1 Thefollowing schedules shall form part of this By-law.
Schedule A - Components of Services Designated in section 2.1
‘Schedule 8 - Residential and Non-Residential Development Charges
6. CONFLICTS

6:1 Where the City of Brockville and an owner or former owner have entered into an agreement with
respect to land within the area to which this By-law applies, and a conflict exists between the
provisions of this By-law and such agreement, the provisions of the agreement shall prevall to
the extent that there is a confit.

62 Notwithstanding section 6.1, where @ development which is the subject of an agreement to
which section 6.1 applies, is subsequently the subject of one or more of the actions described in

City of Brockville
By-law No. 082-2014, Development Charges Page 9

63

subsection 2.4(a), an addtional development charge in respect of the development permitted by
the action shall be calculated, payable and collected in accordance with the provisions of this
By-law if the development has the effect of increasing the need for services, unless such
‘agreement provides otherwise,

Notwithstanding sections 6.1 and 6.2, where a development which is the subject of an
agreement is required to pay an Impost Fee for capital costs included in the DC calculation, the
‘development charge will be payable and the Impost Fee will not be imposed for that capital cost

7A SEVERABILITY,

7a

84

lt, for any reason, any provision of this By-law is held to be invalid tis hereby declared to be
the intention of Counel that all the remainder of this By-law shall continue in full force and effect
nti repealed, re-enacted, amended or modified.

sTE BY-LAW IN FORCE

{8.1 This By-law shall come into effect at 12:01 AM on July 23, 2014

‘9.4_DATE BY-LAW EXPIRES

94

This By-law will expire at 12:01 AM on July 23, 2019 unless it is repeated by Council at an
earlier date,

PASSED THIS 22" day of July, 2014.

layor

ify glerk

City of Brockville
By-law No, 062-2014, Developmert Charges

‘SCHEDULE “A” TO BY-LAW 062-2014
COMPONENTS OF SERVICES DESIGNATED IN SUBSECTION 1.4

100% Blaible Services
Road and Related Services
Water Services

Wastewater Services

e

‘Administration Services

Indoor Recreation Services

Page 10

iy of Brockvile
By-law No, 062-2014, Development Charges Page 11

‘SCHEDULE “B” TO BY-LAW 062-2014
‘SCHEDULE OF DEVELOPMENT CHARGES

eT RG Pome
see Smee | ger? Peers) ownmen [Ores
4 . 4


