CORPORATION OF THE CITY OF BROCKVILLE
By-Law Number 090-2005

A By-Law to provide the purchasing policies, practices, and procedures of goods and

services by the City of Brockville known as the "Purchasing By-Law”

WHEREAS the Municipal Act, 2001, SO 2001.c. 25 Part VI, s. 271 states that
before January 01, 2005, a municipality and local board shall adopt policies with respect.
to its purchasing of goods and services, including policies with respect to;

(A) the types of purchasing processes that will be used;

(8) the goals to be achieved by using each type of purchasing process;

(c) the circumstances under which each type of purchasing process shall be
used ;

(0 the circumstances under which a tendering process isnot required:

© the circumstances under which in-house bids willbe encouraged as part
ofa tendering process:

) how the intogrty of each purchase will be maintained;

© how the interest ofthe municipality or local board, asthe case may be, the
public and persons participating in a purchasing process wil be protected,

(H) how and when the purchasing process will be reviewed to evaluate its
effeciveness, and

0 ‘any other prescribed matter.

WHEREAS the Council ofthe Corporation ofthe City of Brockville dooms it
‘expedient to support the local Canadian marketplace by buying local andlor Canadian
‘when all factors have been considered and are deemed as being equal; and

NOW THEREFORE the Council of the Corporation of the City of Brockville
enacts as follows:

1. Inthis by-taw,
Definitions

1.1. “Acquisition” is the process for obtaining goods andlor services for use,
whether on a permanent or on a temporary basis,

1.2. “Agreement” means a formal written legal agreement or contract forthe
‘supply of goods andlor services.

1.3. “Approval’ is the specific authorization to proceed with the purchase or
lease of specific goods andior services.

City of Brockville

By-law Number 080-2005

14

15

16

17

18

19

1.14

1.15

“Bid” means an offer or submission from a supplier in response to a bid
solicitation which may be in the form of an oral or written quotation, a short
form or public tender or a request for proposal

“Bid Deposit” means certified cheque, money order, bid surety issued by
2 surety company or other form of negotiable instrument required by the
terms and conditions ofthe bid solicitation document to guarantee that the
successful bidder enter into a contract with the City of Brocky

“Bid Solicitation” means a formal request for bids that may be in the
form of a Request for Tender, Request for Quotation, or Request for
Proposal

“Blanket Purchase Order” means a purchase order which establishes
prices or a method of determining prices, terms and conditions and the
Period of time during which a supplier agrees to provide goods or services
to the purchaser upon the purchaser's demand.

“Centralized Co-ordination for Standardization” means policies and
procedures maintained and monitored in one area to ensure consistent
Practices are followed throughout the organization.

“Chief Administrative Officer” means the Chief Administrative Officer of
the City of Brockville, This title may be abbreviated to C.A.O.

“City” means the:

‘+ Municipal Corporation ofthe City of Brockville

+ Agencies, Commissions, Boards and Committees of the Corporation
of the City of Brockville such as the Police Services Board, Museum
Board, Library Board, Cemetery Board, Committee of Adjustment,
Airport Commission, Heritage Brockville and the D.B. A.

‘+ Any other Board, Agency, Commission, and Committees that the
Corporation of the City of Brockville may add from time to time.

“Contract” means any formal legal agreement for goods and/or services.

“Co-operative Purchasing” means the participation of two or more
public agencies in purchasing,

“Corporation” means the Corporation of the City of Brockville.

“Council” or “City Councit” means the Council of the Corporation of the
City of Brockville.

“Director” means the head of a department, agency, commission, board
cr agency within the City

City of Brockville
By-law Number 090-2005 Page3

1.16

1.20

1.21

1.22

1.23

1.24

1.28

1.26

1.27
1.28

Emergency” means a situation with potential to cause harm, death to
persons; accrue liability to the City, cause damage to property; or hamper
the City’s operation and warrants operating outside of the requirements of
this bylaw.

“Goods” shall include supplies, materials or equipment of every kind

“In-House Bids” means a bid prepared by intemal staff to compete to
supply goods and services which are normally provided by external
suppliers.

“Internal Controls” means co-ordinated methods and measures in an
‘organization which are designed to endorse efficiency; monitor
‘observance to City policies and procedures; check the accuracy and
validity of data; and to safeguard assets.

“Professional and Consulting Services” includes services of architects,
‘engineers, designers, surveyors, real estate appraisers, management and
financial consultants, brokers, iawyers, accountants, auditors, and any
‘other professional and consulting services required by the City.

“Project” means the construction, repair or demolition of any
improvement in or on real property, including all costs normally associated
therewith or any other work or undertaking,

“Proponent” means the party who initiates an unsolicited proposal
“Proposal” means written bid from a supplier containing a unique
submission designed to meet broad outcomes to a complex need for
‘hich there is not any clear or single solution.

“Purchase” means the act of and the functional responsibility for
procuring goods andlor services.

“Purchase Order” means the document used to formalize a transaction
with a supplier.

“Purchasing Card” is a credit card issued by a financial institution or
supplier to be used by the City for the purpose of purchasing goods andlor
services.

“Purchasing Policy Co-ordinator” means the City Treasurer.

“Qualified Bidder” refers to a competent and authorized bidder
accredited by the City of Brockville.

City of Brockville
By-law Number 090-2005 Page 4

1.29. “Qualified Supplier(s)” refers to a plausible source who has been
identified as @ competent supplier from which a department can obtain
firm quotations on specific requirements,

1.30 “Quotation” means an offer from a supplier to provide to or purchase
from the City goods and services, which are submitted orally or in writing,
28 required by the policy

1.31. “Services” may include, but are not limited to, telephone, gas, water,
hydro, janitorial and cleaning services, consultant services, legal services,
medical services, insurance, and the rental, repair or maintenance of
equipment, machinery or other personal property.

1.32 “Sole Sourcing” means the purchasing of a good or service that is
Unique to a particular supplier and cannot be obtained from another
source.

1.33 “Stores Manager” means the individual responsible for control of

inventory of consumable goods/products.

1.34 “Supplier” means any individual or organization providing goods or
services to the City of Brockville.

1.35. “Tender” means a sealed bd in response to a requested or publicly
advertised bid solicitation, which contains an offer in writing to execute
some specified services, orto supply certain specified goods, at a certain
Price

1.36 “Total Cost” means the sum of all costs, including all contingencies and
applicable taxes to be paid to a supplier for the purchase of goods and/or

services or, in case of a lease or rental agreement, the total cost of lease
or rental payments for the full term of the lease or rental agreement.

1.37 “Treasurer” means the City of Brockville's Chief Financial Officer.

1.38 “Unsolicited Proposal” means an offer to supply goods andlor services
to the City which was not requested.

2. Unless otherwise provided in accordance with this By-Law, the Purchasing Policy
Co-ordinator and the authorized employees of purchasing services shall act for
the City of Brockville, for the purchase of all goods and services and shall be
responsible for providing all necessary advice and services required for such
purchases in accordance with the method of purchase legislated by the By-Law
and the Purchasing Policies.

City of Brockville
By-law Number 090-2005

‘3. This By-Law shall apply to the purchase of all goods andlor services made on
behalf of the Corporation ofthe City of Brockville, and by any of the Corporation's
legally constituted Boards, Agencies, Commissions, and Committees.

4. . No purchase of goods andlor services shall be authorized unless itis in
‘compliance with this by-law and the purchasing policies contained herein,

5. Purposes , Goals and Obiectives

The purposes, goals, and objectives of this By-law conjoined with the various
‘methods of purchasing will:

‘+ define authority and responsibilty and to standardize approved practices.
provide a central focus for developing expertise and offering advice to
‘departments while maintaining common practices.
promote open competition with suppliers.
capitalize on savings for taxpayers.
‘ensure that the city is in compliance with the requirements of Section 271 of the
Municipal Act, 2001.
‘ensure service and product delivery, quality, efficiency and effectiveness.
‘achieve the best value for the municipality when purchasing goods and
services.
‘ensure equality among bidders/suppliers.
ensure openness, accountability and transparency while protecting the financial
best interests of the City of Brockville

6. Authorized Practice

‘The Council ofthe City of Brockville deems it expedient to have and hereby
authorizes the following methods, authorization levels and processes:

6.1 Low Value Purchasing;

Directors may establish a petty cash fund within their department for
Purchases of $75 or less. This method should only be used when a
purchase order or purchasing card is not feasible. All petty cash
expenditures shall be evidenced by vouchers and shall be forwarded to
‘Treasury to have the department's petty cash fund replenished. The
Director or designate with signing privileges has the authority to approve
authorize vouchers,

City of Brockville

By-law Number 090-2005

62

63

For purchases up to $1,000, a property authorized divisional purchase
Corder or purchasing card shall be used providing the procedure used to
purchase these goods andlor services demonstrate that fair market value
‘was achieved through comparison buying. The Director or designate with
signing privileges has the authority to approve this method,

Rex i
tation:

‘A minimum of three (3) suppliers shall be asked to quote orally when the
Value of the purchase falls between $1,001 to $5,000. This method shall
utilize @ centralized co-ordination for standardization and integrity as well
8 internal controls. The Director or designate with signing privileges at
appropriate dollar value level has the authority to approve this method. A
record of the quotes shall be retained on file.

Whitten Quotations:

‘A minimum of three (3) suppliers shall be asked to quote when the value
of the purchase falls between $5,001 to $25,000. This method shall utilize
‘centralized co-ordination for standardization and integrity as well as
internal controls. A Director or designate with the signing privileges has
the authority to approve this method. When costs exceed$10,000, a
Director shall provide terms of reference which shall meet the satisfaction
of the Purchasing Policy Co-ordinator. The Purchasing Policy Co-ordinator
shall maintain a list of suggested evaluation criteria for the assistance in
formulating an evaluation scheme for this process. A record of the written
quotations shall be retained on fle

Request for Proposal:

‘When the expertise for developing proper specifications and criteria lies in
the hands of the suppliers or when additonal information is required and it
is not practical to call tenders the Director may invite proposals from
‘selected suppliers. The Director, Treasurer and Chief Administrative
Officer have the authority to approve requests for proposals subject to
‘amounts being included and approved in the Budget.

Consultants will remain under the criteria that presently exist in Procedure
1012.

City of Brockville
By-law Number 090-2005 Page7

65

‘The following two tender methods shall comply with the City of Brockville
‘Master Tender Document, which is prepared and maintained by the
Director of Operations in conjunction with the Purchasing Policy Co-
ordinator.

‘Short Form Tender.

For purchases valued between $25,001 to $100,000, a minimum of three
(3) bids shall be solicited from qualified bidders. This method shall utilize a
‘centralized co-ordination for standardization and integrity as well as
intemal controls. The Director, Treasurer and Chief Administrative Officer
have the authority to approve purchases under this method. All
documentation relevant to the short form tenders shall be retained on file.

Public Te

For purchasing activities which exceed $100,000 a request for bids shall
be advertised. The advertisement must be placed in local daily
newspapers and may be placed in all other such publications which the
Director and Purchasing Co-ordinator deem as appropriate and.
necessary.

‘There willbe a public tander opening to receive the bids at a
predetermined place, date and time which will be disciosed in the public
tender documents.

This method shall utilize a centralized co-ordination for standardization
and integrity as well as internal controls. A Director, the Treasurer and the
Chief Administrative Officer have the authority to approve this purchase
Providing that there is Council approval, the emount is within budget and
lowest (or highest as the case may be) bid is accepted

Non-Competitive Purc! ;
(@) Competition may be precluded under the following circumstances:

‘© due to the application of any Act or legislation

‘+ due to the existence of patents or copyrights

‘+ _ inthe case of Emergency Purchasing Procedures (see item #18.
in this By-Law)

City of Brockville
By-law Number 090-2005 Page 8

66

‘A dollar value has not been defined for this type of purchasing but
rigid standards must be met. The Director, the Treasurer and the
Chief Administrative Officer have the authority to approve this method
of purchasing up to $50,000 providing that the Director has provided
terms of reference which shall meet the satisfaction of the Purchasing
Policy Co-ordinator. Council and the appropriate standing committee
shall be so advised

Council's approval is required for all non-competitive purchases in
excess of $50,000.

(b) Special conditions apply against the following non-competitive
purchasing circumstance:

‘+ when an opportunity arises which will allow for the purchase of a
Capital item at substantial savings. Council approval must be
received in advance for any purchase of this type over $5,000.

Unsolicited Proposals:

(a) Unsolicited proposals received by the City shall be reviewed by the
Director and the Purchasing Policy Co-ordinator.

(b) The proponent will be required to supply, to the City, sufficient
information to verify the feasiblity of the proposal,

(©) Should the proposal, in the opinion of staff, have sufficient merit to
‘pursue, it wil then be tendered out for general proposals as per this
By-Law unless otherwise directed by Council

(4) Ifa solicited tendered proposal is received that is superior to the
‘submitted unsolicited proposal the proponent of the unsolicited
‘proposal shall then have first right to amend their proposal to match
the superior proposal

Purchasing Advisement and Policy Responsibilities

Directors have responsibilty for purchasing activities within their departments
and are accountable for achieving the spectic objectives of the purchasing
proposal

City of Brockville
By-law Number 090-2005

‘The Purchasing Policy Co-ordinator is responsible for,

Providing professional purchasing advice and services to the Director(s),

‘+ " monitoring compliance with this by-law,

‘notifying the Director(s), in advance if possible, of non-compliance;

* informing Council, by way of the Chief Administrative Officer, that nor
‘compliance with this by-law has occurred.

8 Process intearity
The objective of the by-law is to establish policies and procedures by which users
will be guided to ensure that al purchases of goods andlor services are being
‘conducted with the optimal dollar value consistent with the required quality of
serviee.

‘An open and honest process shall be maintained that is fair and impartial

The purchasing by-law promotes and maintains integrity ofthe purchasing
process and protects Council, staff, and suppliers involved inthe process by
providing clear direction and responsibilty

Purchasing polcies approved by Council wll act as a guideline and for
information in respect tothe acquisition of goods and services in compliance with
the purchasing by-law.

9. Values and Authority for Purchases

‘Anyone given purchasing authority under this purchasing policy is responsible for
reviewing the budget and purchasing policies to ensure that there are suificient
funds in the budget for the selected project and that the information is accurate.
All employees given signing authority shall complete a "Signing Limits" form. Thi
form must be authorized by the applicable Director and will be retained inthe
‘Treasury Department for referencing, with a copy forwarded to Accounts
Payable.

10. Restrictions

10.1. A project awarded for the purchase of goods andior services cannot be
Separated into two or more components to circumvent the requirements of
this by-law as it relates to values of purchases in order to avoid having to
meet the requirements ofthis by-1aw.

10.2 Director shall not award a contract where the Purchasing Policy Co-
‘ordinator has determined that the provisions in this by-law have not been
met and as such has advised the Director either orally or in writing,

City of Brockville
By-law Number 090-2005

40.3 The Purchasing Policy Co-ordinator shall determine whether any
purchasing activity may be accepted when it could result in an employee-
‘employer relationship. Any City employee wishing to bid on City projects
must first obtain, in writing, approval from the Chief Administrative Officer
todo s0. In co-ordination with both the Director and Human Resources a
judgement may be determined which will adhere to the integrity set forth in
this By-Law.

11. Understandings and interpretations

11.1 Except as otherwise stipulated, any purchase of goods andor services
shall be made on a competitive basis, in keeping with accepted public
purchasing practices and in accordance with the applicable federal,
provincial and municipal laws,

11.2 No purchasing process for goods andlor services shall be intentionally
structured 80 as to avoid any provision of the Purchasing By-law andior
Purchasing Policies

11.3 All purchase of goods andlor services for the City of Brockville shall be
‘Subject to the provisions of this By-Law. Prices and authority levels as
stated within the By-Law are intended to be the total cost including taxes
and freight, less any rebates,

11.4 All suppliers that will be performing work on City property must provide
evidence of appropriate insurance and active Warkplace Safety and
Insurance Board status to be eligible for specified works,

11.5 Specifications shall not be designed or written so as to indicate preference
to any one bidder or, where a specific brand and model is stated as a
benchmark.

12 Approval of Budget

Formal approval of the fiscal year budget or by special approval by Council
constitutes financial approval to pursue expenditures outlined in the department's
budget. Prior o budget approval, Directors can authorize and approve recurring
expenditures which are necessary in the continuity of operations within the City,
all of which are subject to the terms and conditions as may be described in the
City’s Budgeting Control By-law.

City of Brockville

By-law Number 090-2005

13,

14,

15,

16,

bt chest 6

13.1. Inthe case of quotations and tenders, the lowest or highest bid, as the
‘case may be, of a qualified bidder shall be accepted if it meets the
requirements specified in the competition.

13.2 Criteria for awarding of bids will be established prior to issuance of tender
document to prospective bidders. The criteria may include one or more of
the following:

(2) Price

(b) Warranties

(©) Service (Personnel, Availabilty and Qualifications)

(d) Experience/Past Performance

(e) Environmental policies of the bidder

(f) Schedule Preventative maintenance programs.

(g) Local taxpayer suppliers when all other requirements have been met.

In this instance, the award would not necessarily be the lowest or the
highest bid as the case may be.

In-House Bids
In-House Bids will be accommodated in accordance with section 10.3.
‘of Councit

‘Members of Council are permitted to bid on City Projects. When a Member of
Council has any pecuniary interest as a result of submitting a bid, they must act
in accordance with the provisions of the Municipal Conflict of interest Act... In
‘addition to the requirements of the Municipal Conflict of Interest Act, when a
Member of Council will be absent from a meeting where a matter, which is the
subject of consideration, has any pecuniary interest, direct or indirect, the
‘Members of Council shall advise the Clerk in writing, prior to the meeting to
disclose the interest and the general nature thereof.

‘Trade Agreements

Purchasing by the City may be subject to the provisions of any Federal or
Provincial trade agreements.

Where an applicable trade agreement is in dispute with the purchasing by-law,
the trade agreement shall take precedence,

City of Brockville
By-law Number 090-2005, Page 12

18.

19.

Prior to entering into a lease agreement or long term contract, the terms and
conditions shall be reviewed by the Policy Purchasing Co-ordinator, who shall,
provide written confirmation of this review and the acceptability of the agreement.
This procedure is to ensure that these contracts are in compliance with Treasury
Reporting Standardization on Leasing as is contained in the Municipal Act.
All financing agreements shall include, where appropriate, the original equipment
cost, the lenath of the lease, the effective rate of interest, the residual value of
the goods, the complete repayment schedule, the total cost over the term of the
1nd buy-out options if any.

Emergency Purchasing Procedures

This refers to a purchasing process where the usual compeiiive acquisition rules
are suspended due to prevailing emergency circumstances. When an event
‘occurs that is determined by the Director to be a threat to public health, the
maintenance of essential City services, the welfare of persons or of public
property, the protection of the City's physical assets, or the secunty of the City’s
interests or financial liabilities arising from unexpected conditions, and the
‘eccurrence requires the immediate delivery of goods and services and time does
‘ot permit the Director to follow normal purchasing activities to acquire such
{goods and services, the Director may make any necessary purchases without
following the purchasing by-law and is authorized to do so in the most expedient
and economical means possible.

Where @ purchase has been made under the Emergency Purchasing Procedure,
the Director shall notify the Purchasing Policy Co-ordinator and Chief
‘Administrative Officer within two working days.

The Director shal provide a ful writen report of the particulars of the emergency
situation in all cases, where the amount ofthe expenditure has exceeded $1,000
in value. A report to Council shall be submitted for expenditures that exceed
$10,000 under the emergency purchasing procedure,

Blanket Purchase Order

Following the guidelines determined within this by-law, the Purchasing Policy Co-
ordinator may establish prices and select sources to supply goods and services
that are used repetitively. The quantity ofthe goods should be estimated based
‘upon previous usage when requesting the supplier to establish a set price. The
City may establish and maintain a blanket order for these frequently used goods
‘and services once the source and price has been predetermined with selected
suppliers.


City of Brockville
By-law Number 090-2005 Page 13,

20. Sole Source Purchasing

In circumstances where the sources of supply are restricted to the extent that
there is not effective price competition, or consideration of substitutes is
precluded due to any of the following:

‘* components or replacement parts for which there is no substitute
‘© compatibility with an existing product, facility or service is required
‘© specific standards are adopted by Council

‘The Director(s) shall be responsible to demonstrat to the Chief Administrative
Officer and the Purchasing Policy Co-ordinator that the conditions required for
sole source purchasing exist prior to authorization of the purchase,

21, Materials Management and inventory Control

‘Commodities which are available from the central stores inventory and which are
Suitable for the intended end use shall be requisitioned or purchased on a direct
charge basis.

A physical inventory of stock items shall be taken on a periodic basis and an
annual count will be undertaken for year end purposes in accordance with
financially prescribed processes and generally accepted accounting principles.

22, Exclusion of Bidders
‘The City may, inits sole discretion, prohibit a supplier from bidding on future

solicitations, where the supplier has, in the one year period immediately
receding the date of the bidding either,

* performed unsatisfactory work

failed to meet completion dates andlor failed to follow reasonable
instructions

failed to comply with health and safety conditions or violations
‘withdrawn from a tender once the contract has been awarded
failed to comply with the terms and/or conditions of a contract
been a party to litigation with the municipality

23,

‘The purchasing methods described in this by-law do not apply to the following
Goods and Services:

City of Brockville
By-law Number 090-2005, Page 14

23.1 Training and Education

‘+ Registration and tuition fees for conferences, conventions, courses and
seminars

‘+ Magazines, books and periodicals unless the purchases of such
‘magazines, books and periodicals are subject to value-added services

‘+ Memberships

232 Refundable Employee / Councillor Expenses

Advances
Meal Allowances

Travel and Entertainment
Miscellaneous — Non-Travel

23.3 Employer's General Expenses

Payroll Deduction Remittances
Medical

Licenses (Vehicle, Firearms, et.)
Debenture Payments

Grants to Agencies

Damage Claims

Patty Cash Replenishment

Tax Remittances

Insurance Premiums

Payroll Related Issues

Charges to other Government Bodies

234 Miscellaneous

+ where construction or renovation work on a leased building may be
performed only by the lesser of the building

+ when no bids were received in a competitive process

+ when the purchase is already covered by a lease-purchase agreement

+ when an urgent purchasing is necessary for fufiling @ statutory order
issued by a federal or provincial authority, such as an environmental,
public health, or workplace safety compliance order

‘+ when there isa statutory or market based monopoly on the item

‘+ when the required item is covered by an exclusive right such as a patent,
copyright or exclusive licence

‘+ where payments are partially or totally credited to the purchase

‘* when competiive sourcing for low value purchases would be
‘uneconomical or would not attract bids


City of Brockville

24

25.

27.

By-law Number 090-2005 Page 15

‘+ when it is necessary to ensure compatibility with existing products or to
avoid violating warranty/guarantee requirements when service is required

‘+ agreement on Internal Trade and the Ontario-Quebec Trade Agreement
indicate specific exceptions to competitive sourcing

where the item is being tested on a trial basis

where the carrying out of the work by the supplier other than the supplier

‘+ did the original work would nullify the warranty or guarantee held

‘These purchases are stil subject to internal financial controls and
‘generally accepted accounting and reporting practices.

‘When directed by City Council, the following purchase of professional services
will be completed through a Request for Proposal:

© Auditing
Banking

© Actuaries

* Insurance

* General Legal

Co-operative Purchasing

25.1 The City may participate with other government agencies or public
‘authorities in co-operative purchasing when its in the best interest to do
0,

25.2. Ifthe government agency or authority is of a senior level, then the
purchasing policies of that body would come into place under this,
particular circumstance,

Surplus Stock

‘Surplus stock which is no longer used or has become obsolete and is deemed
unsuitable for City use may be disposed of in conjunction with Procedure 1010.
Directors in conjunction with the Purchasing Policy Co-ordinator shall arrange for
the sale/auction of certain identified surplus stock.

Access to Information

‘The disclosure of information received relevant to the issue of Bid Solicitations or
the Award of Contracts emanating rom Bid Solicitation shall be in accordance
with the provisions of the Municipal Freedom of Information and Protection of
Privacy Act, as amended.

City of Brockville
By-law Number 090-2005 Page 16

28 Setting Aside Conditions of Purchasing By-Law

City Council may, on a resolution passed by no less than two-thirds of all of the
‘Members of the City Council present and voting in favour thereof, set aside or
waive the provisions of this by-law.

23 1d Evaluati

‘The purchasing by-law and policies will be reviewed and evaluated once every
five years or more frequently if directed by Council, to analyze for effectiveness,
A review or evaluation of the intemal controls may be executed to confirm that all
procedures and guidelines are being acknowledged and to ensure that the
purchasing of goods andlor services are being administered fairly and impartially.

30. That Council, in adopting this policy by-law, hereby adopts and authorizes the
use of the City of Brockville Master Tender Document as may be amended and
updated by Administration from time to time,

31. If any section, clause or provision of this By-Law is for any reason declared by a
‘court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the same shall not affect the validity
of the By-Law as a whole or part thereof other than the section, clause or
provisions of this By-Law shall remain in force and effect until repealed or
‘amended, notwithstanding that one or more provisions shall have been declared
to be invalid,

32. Appendix “A” to this By-Law, in which is set out the signing authority, integrity,
‘methods of purchasing and limits of purchasing, shall form part of this By-Law.

33. The purchasing portion of By-Law 105-92 shall be rescinded upon passing of this.
By-Law.

34, This By-Law shall come into effect upon passing,
Given under the Seal of the

Corporation of the City of Brockville
‘and passed tis 27" Day of September, 2005


Appendix A

Informal Low Value

wp to $1,000

Purchase orar or Divisional Car. ‘pty cach
purchase under $75 allowed whe purchase eres |
not eal. Campa pring and careattve pig}
fo be cared out fora enatime proce In 2)
expmdourardens atc marrerthc.gh phe |
eral endercataloqes cr adrtsoments. Ths mata
sil use contaizodco-rcaton fr stanéarzaon ar
etwgty a8 wa as etal ont

Dirctoro Desig, ree]
to "vale & aubaty fr
purchase fms on fe.

(ral Quotations

$1,001 © $5,000

marty donno an ntaona bas to at ast ve
aufed suri. Inplomeraten of an efoctie,
etjecve, fi, oper, barsporen, accuntti an
scent process forcing competi bids sed)
Pret dtr requires or which ae aco
sluon.To sep hs lowest |r highos whichever
ease may be) bid. Prferonen for ocl sappls sto]
considered ery when all ter actos ae eal. This}
method. wil Wve cantalzed co-odnaton ta
| senderdztn and integrity as wel a toma cont
and decorated purchasing by Doar

Dict o Deng, rer
to abe & asta fr
pure fs on,

Witton Quotations

$5,001 to $25,000

| Prmary done cn ania bai rom at ast re]
quid suppor. The mated may be surpemented
sth pic advrtng Inelemectaton of anette
cacti, fe, oper, tarsparet, account a
ecient process for caring compat bids based co)
preety dra rqarament for which ae i co
luton. To acep lowes (orth whichever te
caso ray bo) bid Perea orcad vgpios fo
eonidoed cry when all far actors ae ec. Ths
method wil uso contalzed co-ordination fr
| Sandazatin and tog as wl as etal cons
nd canted pacha by Doar,

Director Desa,
toler to “eke auorty
purchase fms one
We cote exo
$12.000, to Deer wi
rowdo the Puchaseg|
Pelcy Coerdrator win]
tor of reer


tettomtaae |= [spr ennnp — [amorain tne, ea amo] pert Da
oss acsetasean ce peces tr | eeu ng6R0
satigcngumetasenicneccay sad | Tote
rete entirerrp eter
Hemigeeciinlnat tiaras
Becht hace Tear aot Resp!
Seana stow bocca etl
Raarg retirees Cotaoornear
trata econ cn seed
ocr wa tra elt ape
acento copasuesentedey
oar Seon
Pcs = [owt eo lignan tc ct te al Deparment Breau
aoe cnatam ceessecpeoas er |amurrtne C8
caitgemsmenatietoacy Sant | ponind a
seewteutruateesnesore ate
| soktion. Documents are to be based on the City of (@) the amount is
Brockville's Master Tender Document with evaluation | Within the approved
criteria based on the Municipal Tendering Procedure | budget
fino) nessa eoaeaear te oe
tender willbe submitted on prescribed forms. Thera wit| (2) Council approved
eps ptr tapered an,
Pascaina ipl sccm, Neiman 3 os
elmore tu cane iy be) desing rece
porsce Ceeatehea ttn oe
cron ore ean tropes un | owes or NaNest
rosasansopes trcces as [woes
Peston crate nee |
Poe fcaaurvan [Terni tecin acim wom | pert ar,
pete Tewiet somewitaccapecele | eee Gat
fcartgignpegean sapeteerbecs | ocasta Sue
aera marco cate cae
Broce oun eaars Wor eoenet
Soaianees gomaoe cctoatte
near vein acre Sacra
Ieeacledt taanesea wean Te
chip ur eigen ts
Pompe ener ees
aad Coa, capes
— deve ited Ao erpucrg nn ce ain name | Dera Dac,
Ferenn hefeetendortall evertreyeneroreranrsrmpeng (noma
eae senccpaereensranbariemesi (oa
yesciaguurirenesettectared’ | ares woud
PSesccppecaetnmasnacs te {von mth
evens sunt erent | oust Paeang
SRacnderenpecypeoasce [puke tereag,
tans

“Section 271 ofthe Municipal Act, requires to indicate when tendering does & does nat apply.
‘The Dfiton t Bt An ofr or ub fe a suplirin apeen oa bi slton wich mayb fm fn calor win ttn a ht

{orm o  encer,oareest x props


