a City of Brockville

BROCKVILLE Youth Advisory Committee Meeting
{ivr TE Ieoo BANS Tuesday, December 20, 2011, 2:30 pm
Committee Minutes Council Chambers
Roll Call:

Councilor Leigh Bursey
Derek Atkinson

Melissa McCabe

David Patterson, UCLG Health Unit
Brodie Somerville

Absent:
John Woods
Matt Hoy

Staff:
Ms. Daphne Livingstone, Deputy City Clerk (Committee Clerk)

Others:
Steve Clark, MPP
Mr. Giggins, Executive Assistant to Mr. Clark

Chair Bursey called the committee meeting to order at 2:30 pm,
1. APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA
Moved by: D. Atkinson

THAT the Agenda be approved as presented.
CARRIED
2. DELEGATIONS

‘Steve Clark, MPP

Mr. Clark addressed the Committee on his background and experience beginning
with being elected Mayor in 1982. Mr. Clark served as Mayor of Brockville from
1982-1991 having begun his term immediately following university graduation.
Currently, Mr. Clark has the position of being the opposition’s critic for the
Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Housing (MMAH). Recently, the government has
tabled legislation related to a rent floor and ceiling. Mr. Clark's position is that we
are currently not receiving our fair share of municipal housing dollars. In the
1990's Mr. Clark established the local nonprofit housing association and feels
that there are additional models options that are available to meet the housing
void.


City of Brockville
Youth Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, December 20, 2011 Page 2

‘As well, Mr. Clark would lke a review of the municipal elections legislation during
the new session of Parliament with the goal being to get more young people
involved in the election process.

Ministry of Citizenship of Ontario offers a youth volunteerism award. Any youth
that has belonged to a volunteer organization or participated for a period of two
years is eligible to receive an award. The Youth Advisory Committee could
‘champion this award by bringing forth nominations. Many local groups and
‘events need revitalization and by encouraging youth to become lifelong
volunteers would make that happen. This award is an excellent way to recognize
youth. Deadline for nominations is January 25, 2012.

3. MINUTES OF LAST MEETING
Moved by: D. Patterson

THAT the Minutes of the Meeting held November 15, 2011 be approved as
amended.
CARRIED
4, BUSINESS ARISING FROM THE MINUTES.

Draft report to FAO in January was distributed for review. By all accounts, the
report is well writen,

5. OUTSIDE COMMITTEE UPDATES

* Citizens Brockville. Brodie volunteered but the Citizens Brockville Group
has not held a meeting,

+ Local Food, delegation from October was very insightful. No current action
is taking place.

Brackville Cycling Advisory Committee is looking for members.

+ Library Board and the Youth Advisory Committee are not pursuing
partnership or collaboration at this time.

‘+ White Ribbon Campaign, Mike McKeegan is stil seeking ideas for events,
and will be attending future meetings with YAC.

6. NEW BUSINESS
1, 2012 Meeting Dates
January meeting will be held Tuesday, January 17", 2012 at 2:30 p.m.
Future meeting dates will likely be rescheduled to the first Tuesday of
‘every month at 2:30 p.m.

2. Future Projects

City of Brockville
Youth Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, December 20,2011 Page 3

a) Earl's Court Playground Fundraising
Representatives from the group wil be invited to attend a future
meeting,

) Youth Friendly Community Application Process
Examine the benefits of the designation and determine the City of
Brackville's strengths and weaknesses as well as increase the
visibility of the Committee in Brockville.

©) Report on YAC Objectives to FAO

4) Social Housing Guidelines & Youth Homelessness
‘The Committee would lke to develop a survey for youth. Possible
distribution to alternative high school, library.

) Webpage for YAC

7. ADJOURNMENT
Moved by: B. Somerville
THAT the Youth Advisory Committee adjourn until the next scheduled meeting of

January 17", 2011 at 2:30 p.m.
CARRIED

The meeting adjourned at 3:27 pm.

