Spotlight on Ontario

Public Libraries

What you need to know as a municipal councillor

Congratulations!

hater bis your Fret elacton fo miki ofc, or ou fh on
ena of Oar’ pub trans, we hank yu fo ing you ine
ard nary lo yur community We wsh you every sucess your
new espns

“Tnepupos ofthis handouts to bi you on the governance of pubic
rary sevice in Oniao ad the ipartant ro yur ll rary
ay in tee of your carmunty. Tha pute tary can lp you be
‘sucessful in achieving your munca pres,

‘Today’ pub trary is a community save ta ents eveyone
1 changes les an sngthens communes in irpotan way.
Increasraly, he publi Ira scored as a virart community
where eins sty, esearch, tant eves and sinly jy
gatarng and conecing wih one aot.

Much More than Books!

Hf youve not vied your aca ary recent, oo! You wi
vwinas ene of he bet sed resources inthe commun,
mecing aval of neds

+ nvunamplyed man uss ara computer update
he resume ard loo or work

+ Ala eneprancur uses rar busines information
forreseach

+ Anaucomerleams Engish
+ Asuden wars thera

+A naw reset conse bullain boards fr community
ington

+ Aung famiy eas ogo

Inlet you wit be the indus acossing he trys
cine resources fom thie homes and ofces. Fat om
felaciglbvares,tcilogy makes Ivars more krpotant
than ever, fling cud acces to a wero infra,

Boards and Councils Working Together

“Tose series ae only possible because of respansble stwarship
by Libary Boards and he ongoing support of munis, aided
by to Province of Oriara. By waking ager, Libary Boards and
‘Murcia Couns provide responsive and inmovat Ieary service
‘hates he needs fhe commit.

(Ontario toasts 72 millon vis a yea ts publi ris.
+ 995% of Ontarians have accssto publicly service

+418 municipalities ofr publi ary sence trough 1,141
sani outs

+ AB millon Ontario rsienis have ace lary cards
+125 lon tems are borowed evry oar

+ 12,0 public computer workstation and hundreds of nine
resource are aval in publ lrares arose he province,

Findout just how many resdansin yur municpsy have ery
ards or vist iar on regular basis. You wl be loasay
surised!

Whether you connect in person or
online, your public library offers you
enjoyment and resources unavailable
anywhere else. The return on your
investment is potentially unlimited!

Ngtsecranber
Minot Cars & Famer CAO

"Suter tem ee ts Pa Ly Sc: eyo,
CiteSeer

What is your role in providing public library service?

Public Library Governance in Ontario

‘he Pable Lares Act, RSO, 190, CHAPTER P44 (he Act is provincia! egisaton
‘hat gies mia the poner to stabi a local pub tary. The Act alo alls &
munca entra cariact rir srvice wi neighboring publi bry bar,
instead of stabishing sown ray.

(ree a pubiclirary is established, Murcip Coucl shen regret appoint menbers to
‘he Publ Library Board. Cone and Boar terms ae concurer

[Atte frst moeing ini nw ter, Coulis equ to appoint ini ove members
‘othe Lorry Soar sone of when, ut nat amar, maybe elec fis tsa coun
system bere majary may be councils

Appointment of quad indicus and orging Gouna representation cn the Libary Board
‘orm he basis fx an mpi partership between Muncpl Counc andthe Boar

Appointments to the Library Board
‘Th At sl tal rarer he pu ube git ocean te spr o
Zhi fo pens one Lay Bost Th ogg Lay Bud an ray CEO fan
stone atl abn paring bes an epee nef. Coe en alae
Sirona

‘The Library Boar needs monbers who are represeriave of he communty, caratiod
‘olay serve. an prepared for response stwarishp and engeing claborton wth
Murcia Coun

Councils appointed to te Lary Boar are hay to maintaining 2 two-way fw of
camrication ara gos wang elatonstipbelwoen Board and Councl. As ameréer of
‘he Lary Boer Miia Councilor has the ame rhs and reponse as ary ober
rmarbercf he Lbvary Bard Ala Board meeting, Municipal Canals obligated voteas
‘amemter of he Library Board ot sa manba of Cou

Library Board Obligations and Responsibilities
Your Pile vary Borda pei nteprr cpio itt gl yo poe
“Scrqrenae and inte nmry save ak ec coment oe
toate UA 2)

[As such the Lirry Board has the autor to ello cones, engage erplvees and
‘canacorsand th te ngs # cams acatary She proviso bar serve.

‘Tho Public Lares Act rogues tlhe Board appin a easurer who shal rca, count
for, dopa ard dsburse he moray as rected by th Board. Some aspects of the larry
‘rancialoperaens, suchas payrl, may bellegrate ino hemuricpallys racial syst
proved al lgal requirements re met, incuding a separa bank account ihe rare fhe
Leary Boar

‘Tho brary Board is requred to held gular metings ance @ ment fora ls 10 mars
rey yar Beard mecngs must be open to ha publ ress acosed meeting is waraiod
fs precebed nthe eit,

zie

In Haldimand County,
we encourage a culture
of organizational
cooperation. Libraries
and municipalities are
natural partners. We
respect the Board’s
legal autonomy,

but recognize that

wwe serve the same
community and have
compatible objectives.
Wherever possible - in
formulating budgets,
in developing policies,
or in delivering
programs - we work
together to provide
value-added service to
our customers.

Den Bye,
AO, lean Cuny

The Board as Employer
‘Th rary Sardis only fal ry ial hiss rr Ci Exare
‘tc (€20) th spormer staCEOby tu Livan Sous aroaterotoltalapsaon
‘he GEO han unl spun ov ad rae he opr ole aay and fs
42a ated fod mtn, dsr ours an ies aed by oar

Notwtstaning its avonony the Libary Board ang the municipality can benefit fom a dose
reatorship.Devlping a rapport canbe banaial on many lvl, ning he sharing of
Doloes,pfactces and pocacures such aeas a ysl and human resource. A does
‘eatorship can resin th brary CEO being considerod a valued membar fhe rniceal
‘maraperet tam. This does require ta veryore understate CEO sil apart
and fas drocon fom th Libary Board Ths lvl of conmuncaion and calaberaton
‘sere the conmndy we

Library Service is Free
There et spc eins ola of ge Lay
bard yttchage aan atc ea, ort we tate hs
rye Betas prstbn an ete of ail esa rat nf of
Charcot caves abet.

‘The Boatd may mgose fos for seo iat stvies by non-esiens ano rom renal.

“Tis requromet to prove fe publi ary service mats th ery ferent fom ther
community services wich may general revenue in th frm of se fos.

How Are Libraries Funded?

Murcia taxoayers ae te primar source of operating funds for publi raisin Ont,
Provider household gras do nol makeup large orn of mos boards revenue

“The Pic Lrares At gives Murcia Counc abso srebon over th amauto fnds
1 provides. nels, Cound may coal he Boars bet othe ogee that chases

CCommen prac i or Counc to elabish buenas and forthe Library Boar
‘o propre a budget that eects these quienes. Counc! than approves, or aerds and
approve the bust, ging careful aan tothe aches fis Lary Baad which wil ako
hae akon sigan caren devtopng ils budget. Tris process tends o work wel, ensuing
arcountbityand he wise and prudent se fax dlrs

‘Should Coun ett ts contuon th Boats iy oft oer oveue extemal
lie. Ontario pub liranes do see acon! undng inte rm of rans Development
(Charges, and findrasing fr enhancements and capt projets.

Pubic brary beads ls havea tang traditon of group purchasing, leading to siitcanty
reed cot

In summary, 2s onurylrary serve isnot posse witout stong commitment on the
pat of Muncial Coun

In our community
the library not only
promotes literacy

and maintains a high
profile as a provider of
educational, research
and cultural services,
it is also an economic
engine and key partner
in our municipal
strategies.

ce Cm,
Sits Fas trcpt Coe

‘As amember of Municipal Councl,
you have an Important voice in
‘determining the qualty of pubic
brary service in your community.
We encourage you to learn more
‘about your local brary and to
lend your support to this vital
‘community service.

Helping Communities Thrive in a Changing World

[As someane who cares enough about your community take on he dorands of
public, your, na da are cf he anes chalengs fang communis
in these uncertain tres. An aging population and rowng cultural ers, the
chaning nature of economic evelopment, anda diminished ax base, ae st sore
ofthe forces making he ure unpredelable

‘Song munities ae kayo Onlar'secnaic willy. We reed communis
with heathy lal economies and fourising downtowns . Resides need
access to cooraled wortplace deweopment progams, 2 varety of laring
ard raring opportunites and a robust lecnology infastucue . Oiao
needs communis that supart smal businesses and creative vrs.
Regarlss fhe partular challenges facing your community, the pu Iba can
‘ay an imran le suparting muni sap thal bulé and senghan
cammunitstis not a etch to say hat communis cart afford to be witeut
goad publi rary serie

‘The pub rary helps communis achieve:

+ formed and ied eens

+ Stiles workers

+ Creavly engaged eons and yourg ats

+ Aleve lying fel for eran, Hlorg learn and across to techralogy

+ nine, ural divers scely

+ Aton snse of community entity ant wel-eing

Resides rly onthe pubic cary to provide what they need to be prod,
engaged members lhe commu.

LUbrary Service ww sols.org

The Importance of
Intellectual Freedom

Universal access fo inemaon and
‘nelectual reedom are fundamen huran
ight and comersones of a functerng
leracy. The publi tary isconiteso
rotcing these igh by making it psstle
feral members of soely to acoss the
Information and eas hay need to conduct
their es

For more information:

+ ThePrble Laie Ac
‘wanelaws govonca

+ Ontario nist of Touts, Cure
and Spat
wanumte.govonca

+ Souhen Ona Library Seis
wanusolsong

+ Orato trary Serica - Noth
wanwolenea

+ Onto trary Boars Asotin
anv accessola.com

+ The Federation of Ontario Pub Liars
vwwtoplea

And, ofcourse, youl want check aut your
local bran website

rset Sip fom he Pe of Os Se
on sone

