Brockille Public Library Board Meeting Minutes

Monday, October 28, 2019
Buell st. Room, Brochille Public Library

Call to Order: 5:35pm

Present: Board Members: N. Bowman, L. Corbeil, C. Hannah, N. MeNeill,C. Quick, A. von
‘ramon, L. Wales, M. Wiklum

Sta: . Farell, Lika

Regrets: L Bursey

Introductory Remarks (information/ announcements)

'N. Bowman reminded the Board about the upcoming regional Trustee meeting, organized by the
Southern Ontario Library Service, hasted atthe North Grenville Public Library on November 2,
{rom 10am ~ 1pm.

‘Approval of the agenda. Approved.

Declaration of conflict of interest: none

5. Consent agenda:
3. September Board minutes
1. September Statistics & Financial report
September CEO Report

Moved by L Wales and seconded by C. Hannah... “That the Brockill Public Library Board
accepts the consent agenda which includes the September Board minutes, September
Statisties & Financial report, and September CEO report.” Carried

For discussion/ decision
a. 2020 Budget & City audited financial statements

E Farrell provided an update on the ongoing budget process. The Library willbe presenting
the 2020 Operational Budget to Cty Council on February 13,2019.

b. Strategic Plan

E Farrell gave an update onthe current planning process. The next meeting forthe
Strategic Planning Committee willbe in November, date TBD,


Brockille Public Library Board Meeting Minutes

(Public Library Leaders ~ update.
Farrell provided updated expenses for this professional development for 2019,

‘Moved by A. von Cramon and seconded by L. Wales. “That the Brockill Public Library
‘reimburse $1,309 84 for expenses in PLL program tothe CEO." Carried

4. Ontario Library Association conference

‘A. von Cramon wil represent the Brockville Public Library Board at the upcoming library
conference in January. €. Farrell and Julien wil also be attending

7. Policy Review
Programs, Events, Outreach = 19

‘Moved by A. von Cramon and seconded by N. McNeill. “That the Brockville Public Library
Board accepts the revisions to the Programs, Events, Outreach policy ~ 19 as presented.”
carced,

'b. Health and Safety policy ~ first tabling

The Board discussed the proposed revisions tothe exstng Health and Safety policy. This
policy wil return to the table in November.

Governance & Foundation policies
Deferred

8. For Exploration
|& Advocacy: sharing|promoting|celebrating BPL

N. Bowman attended the Chamber of Commerce update onthe Corridor and willbe sending
‘out notes. N. McNeill snow serving on the Municipal Drug Strategy Committe.

b. Municipal relationships

Board members reported on meetings with Council members.

Provincial funding
4. Upcoming events

rary Board Meeting Minutes Page?

Brockille Public Library Board Meeting Minutes

Board Development ~ Assessing & Planning

420, ems for next agenda

Health and Safety policy
Governance & Foundation statements
Strategic Plan

‘Budget 2020

Board Development

Trustee Meeting ~ November 2

2020 meeting dates

11, Private session

Board moved into private session at 7:15pm by A. von Cramon to discuss a matter in which an
individual may be identified. Maved out of closed session at 7:23pm by M. Wicklum and took no

action

12, Meeting Evaluation:

13, Adjournment:

leferred

24pm

Next meeting: November 25, 2019, 5:30pm at the Broculle Public Library

Signature ofthe Chair:
(after approval)

foray: Board Meeting Minutes Pages of

able


