Brockville Public Library Board Meeting Minutes

‘Monday, August 21,2021,
Buell st. Room, Brockille Public Library

41. Callte Order: 5:34pm by Zoom videoconference
Present: Board Members: L. Bursey, L Corbell, C. Hannah, C. Quick, A. von Craman,L. Wales, M.
‘Wieklum
Regrets: N. McNeill
Sta: Farrell

2. Introductory Remark information/ announcements)
‘The Brockville Public Library is situated onthe traditional teritry of the Haudenosaunee and Huron:
\Wendat. With gratitude and respect, we acknowledge the significant contributions Indigenous peoples
have, and continue to make, on these lands

3. Approval ofthe agenda. Approved.

4. Declaration of conflict of interest: none.

5. Consent Agends!

‘3. June Board minutes

b. June/July Library report

Moved by L. Wales and seconded by L Corbeil. “That the Brocuile Public Library Board accepts the
June Board minutes and the June/luly Library report" Carried

6. Far discussion/ decison:
12. 2022 Budget ~ outline of timeline & goals

Farrell shared the timeline and goals forthe 2022 Library budget.
». 2021 Contribution Agreement

E Farrell reported that the Library is waiting for updates on the Contribution Agreement from City staff

‘The working group established willbe convened once the Board receives the updated draft ofthe

Contribution Agreement

Thisitem will return to the table

Strategic Plan

E Farrel presented a timeline for finishing the Strategic Plan. Its expected that the Strategic Plan will
be completed by the end of January 2022. This item will return tothe table.

4d, 2019 & 2020 financials


Brockville Public Library Board Meeting Minutes

‘A.von Cramon shared correspondence from the Mayor and City Manager about the Library's 2019 and
12020 audited financial statements. Library staff are reaching out to the auditors for clarification. This
item will return to the table,

‘@EDRTC committee presentation

E. Farrel willbe presenting a Library update to the EDRTC committee of Council on September 7. She
shared the draft presentation tothe Board and received feedback.

7. Board Development ~ deferred

{8 Incamera ~ moved into closed session by M. Wicklum at 6:46pm forthe purposes of discussion

personal matters about an identifiable individual. Moved out of camera at 7:18pm by M.
‘Wieklum and took action,

‘9. Meeting Evaluation: . Farrell will send out onlin form link
420, Adjournment: a 7:22pm by L. Corbeil

Next meeting: September 27, 2020, 5:30pm, location TED

Sate ofthe Char SoS

(after approval)


