Brockville Public Library Board Meeting Minutes

Monday, October 25,2021
Buell st. Room, Brochille Public Library

4. Galle Order: 5:35pm
Present: Board Members: L. Corbeil, C. Hannah, N. McNeill, C. Quick, A. von Cramon, L Wales
Regrets: M.Kalivas, M. Wicklum
Staff: E. Farrell, M Osborne
2. Introductory Remark information/ announcements)
‘The work we da atthe Brockville Public Library takes place onthe traditional territories of the Huronne
‘Wendat, Annishnabek and Haudenosaunee Peoples.
ith gratitude and respect, we acknowledge the significant contributions Indigenous peoples have, and
continue to make, on these lands
'A.von Cramon wil follow up withthe City about Council representation on the Library Board
3. Approval ofthe agenda. Approved.
4. Declaration of conflict of interest: none.
5. Consent Agenda!
‘2. September Board minutes
. September Library report

Moved by C. Quick and seconded by C. Hannah... “That the Brockville Public Library Board accepts the
‘September Board minutes and the September Library report.” Carried.

6. Far discussion/ decison
2 Contribution Agreement

‘The Library Board reviewed the proposed changes to the Contribution Agreement. E. Farell will each
‘ut to City staff with possible edits. Tis item wil return tothe table next month

b. HR Policy Review
Farrell shared the updates to the Library's HR Policy Review. Thisitem wil return to the table.
E Farrel shared information about budgetary pressures and possible options.

4. 2022 Budget ~ first tabling

Farrell shared the draft operating and capital budgets. This item will turn to the table,


Brockville Public Library Board Meeting Minutes

7. Board Development ~ deferred

{8 Incamera ~C. Quick moved into camera at 7:30pm fo the purposes of discussion personal
matters about an identifiable individual. Moved out of camera by C. Quick out at 7:35pm and
to2k no action

‘9. Meeting Evaluation: . Farrell will send out onlin form lnk.

10, Adjournment: at 7:36pm by N. McNeill,

Next meeting: Novernber 22, 2020, 5:30pm, atthe Library

Signatur ofthe Cate

(after approval),


