Brockille Public Library Board Meeting Minutes

Monday, May 31, 021
Buel St. Room, Brockville Public Library

Call to Order: 5:37 pm by Zoom videoconference

Present: Board Members: L Corbell,C. Hannah, C. Quick, A. von Cramon, L. Wales, M. Wieklum
Regrets: L Busey, N. McNeil

Staff: €, Farrell, M. Osborne
Guest: J. Loveys, City Manager, City of Brocille

Introductory Remarks (information/ announcements)

‘The Brockill Public Library is situated onthe traditional territory of the Haudenosaunee and
Huron-Wendat. With gratitude and respect, we acknowledge the significant contributions
Indigenous peoples have, nd continue to make, on these lands.

‘Approval of the agenda. Approved.

Declaration of conflict of interest none

City-ibrary Contribution Agreement 2021

4. Loveys shared the contribution agreement between the Library and City for 2021. Library Board had
‘an opportunity to provide feedback. Amendments will return tothe table forthe June Board meeting,

6. Consent Agenda:
‘2. April Board minutes

. AprilLibrary report

Moved by C. Quick and seconded by L. Wales. “That the Brockville Public Library Board accepts the
‘April Board minutes and the Apri Library report.” Carried

7. Board Development ~ deferred

8. For discussion/ decision:
2. 2021 Budget update

E Farrell shared the 2021 Budget Impact Analysis. Discussion occurred at the Board and E. Farrel wil
provide further information atthe next meeting

. 2020 Community Report

E Farrell shared the draft ofthe 2020 Community Report. . Farrell and A. von Cramon willmake some
last few changes then the final draft will be eacy for approval


Brockille Public Library Board Meeting Minutes

2020 Audit

IM. Osborne provided an update onthe Library’s 2020 audit process. Its expected that. a draft ofthe
‘auited financial statement will be availabe forthe June meeting.

9. Incamera

Moved in camera by €. Hannah at 6:46pm for the purposes of discussion personal matters about an
identifiable inividual. Moved out of camera at 7:24pm by M. Wicklum and took no action,

10, Meeting Evaluation:

Farrell will end out online form ink

11, Adjournment: at 7:26pm by L Wales

Next meeting: June 28, 2020, 5:30pm via Zoom meeting

se

Signature ofthe Ch
(after approval


