Brockville Public Library Board Meeting Minutes

Monday, January 24, 2022
Buell st. Room, Brockille Public Library

4. Galt Order: 5:34pm

Present: Board Members: L. Corbeil, C. Quick, B. Steel, A. von Cramon, L Wales, M. Wicklum, M. Wren
Regrets: N. McNeill

Sta: Farrell

2. Introductory Remark information/ announcements)
‘The work we da atthe Brockville Public Library takes place onthe traditional territories ofthe Huron-
‘Wendat, Annishnabek and Haudenosaunee Peoples.
ith gratitude and respect, we acknowledge the significant contributions Indigenous peoples have, and
continue to make, on these lands

3. Approval ofthe agenda: Approved.

4. Declaration of conflict of interest: none.

5. Consent Agend!

‘3. November Board minutes

b. November & December Library report

Moved by C. Quick and seconded by 8. Steel. "That the Brockile Public Library Board accepts the
November Board minutes and the November & December Library report.” Caried

6. Far discussion/ decison:
2. 2022 Budget ~ updates

E. Farrell shared the final budget presentation to Council A. von Cramon and E. Farell willbe presenting
the Library's municipal funding request to City Council Tuesday, January 25, 2022.

b, 2021 Legislative Compliance Document
Farrell shared the Legislative Compliance Document with the board. There is one less identified risk
{rom 2021 compared to 2020. €. Farrell recommends a more comprehensive organizational risk

‘assessment within the next two years

Moved by L. Wales and seconded by C. Quick. “That the Brockville Public Library Board accepts the
2021 Legislative Compliance Document." Carried

& Bosrd work plan

Deferred until next month,

1d. CEO recruitment


Brockville Public Library Board Meeting Minutes

|A.van Cramon provided an update onthe CEO recruitment process. The hiring committee intends to
post the position within the next week or two. The hiring committee is working withthe Ontario Library
Service (OLS) on ths. Ths item will return tothe table.

Policy review committee

|A.von Cramon discussed creating a policy review committee to review and make recommendations to
palicy updates.

7. Board Development ~ deferred

'8._Incamera ~ moved into camera at 6:22pm by M. Wieklum forthe purposes of discussion

personal matters about an identifiable individual. Moved out of camera by C. Quick at 6:28
‘and took no action

‘9. Meeting Evaluation: . Farrell will send out onlin form lnk.
10, Adjournment: at 6:34pm by L Wales

Next meeting: February 28,2022, 5:30pm, location TBD

Signature of he Chair EET

(after approval),


