ONTARIO ||:

Board Transition

Success! jion Planning for Public Libraries

Stronger libraries. Stronger communities.

Session Outline

1. Context setting

2. Board succession as process
3. Local approaches

4. Resources

5. Q+A

ONTARIO\ sence

But first, some context

* transition to the new board is smooth

Good governance in board | +municipality has the information
succession means that... needed to appoint good people

* orientation for new board members is
seen by the board as a renewal

ONTARIO\ sence

Recap: Board Transition - Legacy Documents

Board legacy

What remains once the four-year board

term has come to an end
(e.g. information, documents, framework)

ONTARIO\ sence

Board
Succession:
The Process


Board Appointments

Process outlined in the Public Libraries Act.

The current Library Board

remains an active board Library board

appointments are made

until the new Library

Boards appointed by municipal council

| ONTARIONS&E:

Board Appointments

Process outlined in the Public Libraries Act.

Reappointments are

allowed

LIBRARY
SERVICE

Board Appointments

Process outlined in the Public Libraries Act.

Appointments must be
made at the first meeting

Notice of vacancies must

be advertised

of Council or within 60
days

ONTARIOIsmnet

Board Appointments: Managing the Succession

Legacy Documents
Outgoing Board’s Role in
Recruitment

ONTARIOIsmnet

Recruiting the Right People

Work with the
Municipality & Council

* What skills are you looking for? + Share your preferred requirements
+ What experiences are you looking for? * Take on some of the work

Get the Message Out to the Community

+ Encourage people you may know to apply
* Define the commitment
* Hold information sessions

| ONTARIONSR:

MUNICIPALITY LIBRARY

Local
Approaches

BOARD APPOINTMENTS

ONTARIO\ sence

Board Member
Position
Description

ONTARIO!

LIBRARY
SERVICE

Qssete2y

London Public Library Board Trustee Position
September, 2018,
Library Purpose Statement

London Public Library strengthens people and neighbourhoods by creating connections
that enrich ves, inspire discovery, foster creativity, and expand possibilities \

Library Values

‘Community values: access, community engagement, diversity & inclusiveness, open
to all & nonjudgmental, intellectual freedom, privacy, respect, service excellence

Corporate values: innovation, leadership, stewardship, transparency

ibrary Board

Public Library Boards are governing boards, legal corporations with the authority to
‘make policy and to govern the library's affairs under the Public Libraries Act, RSO
1090, ¢ P44

‘A board's duty is to provide comprehensive, effective and efficient public library service
that reflects the community's needs and builds community capacity

‘The stakeholders of today's libraries expect strong leadership. Consequently modem
govemance must reach beyond ongoing budget oversight and a regular strategic
planning exercise to embrace new ideas, and forge strong relationships that will support
the library in ts Purpose and community and corporate values.

‘The primary roles of the London Public Library Board are to

‘+ Set the vision, mission and strategic direction for the library and, using strategic
planning techniques, determine a strategy map to get there,
a a i

Work with the
Municipal Admin and

ONTARIO\ sence

‘August 28, 2008

Me. Kevin Bain
ity Clerk

‘The Corporation of the City of London
300 Dufferin Avenue

London, Ontario NEB 122
‘519-661-2500 14937

Dear Mr. Bain
This letter is written related to the Public Libraries Act, R.S.0. 1990) ¢:.44, Sections 11
and 12, regarding where a vacancy arises in the membership ofa library board

Thank you for initiating the steps required to give public notice ofthe vacancy and to hold
‘office of Trustee, London Public Lbrary Board. We were pleased to see thatthe process has
been expedited.

{In order to assist in this matter, the Library Board has prepared a document that can be
sed to provide information to individuals Interested in applying for the vacency; you and
Your staff in answering questions from interested people and in reviewing applications; and
the Controllers and Councilors in making an appointment. Pease find this document
attached,

‘The document includes a section on core Gompetencies and qualifications designed to
support the selection and eppointment of an individual who can make a difference in our
community by being an effective London Public Library Board Trustee. The essential core
competencies and qualifications are:

‘Conviction that the public Ibrary is essential and uniquely important to the life of al!

Londoners and communities within London;

Commitment to tendon and Londoners through active service to the community;
Leadership experience;
Business acumen;
Ability to seek and listen to input from all stakeholders;
‘Ability to approach people and problems with an open mind;
‘Ability to actively participate in discussion and deliberation and to attain postive
‘outcomes; and
+ Time ang energy.

We have also provided highly desirable qualifications, based on status of the London
Public Library Strategic Plan: Imagine! and the current/emerging economic
‘environment. The Library requires a well connected, credible community leader who brings:
‘+ A large network of varied community contacts incuding the business/corporate,
education, public and not-for-profit sectors; and
‘+ Success in advocating for funding and political support.

Experience in the area of fund development would be an asset given that this will be
‘significant strategic emphasis tor the Ubrery Board the next few years.

CP

Supporting the
Next Board

ONTARIOIsEmnee

Resources

The Redesigned
Governance Hub

smanceHUB is an online portal for Ontario's public library board members. The
nceHUB is your first place to look for information and reso ated to your
1 public library board member.
smanceHUB i red by the Ontario Library Service, with input from the
Ontario Library Boards’ Association and the Federation of Ontario Public Libraries.

LIBRARY pam
SERVICE Senvice

Resources

* Board Legacy Webinar
+ Board Appointment Process

© Recruiting the Right People
* Board Member Position Description and Letter to Council re: Appointments (link)

* Governance Hub

ONTARIO\ sence

ONTARIO ||:

Questions? Let’s Chat!

consulting@olservice.ca

Stronger libraries. Stronger communities.

