Brockille Public Library Board Meeting Minutes

‘Monday, April 25, 2022
Brockville Public Library

1. Call to Order: 5:31 pm

Present: Board Members, P. Luhadia, C. Quick, A. von Cramon, L. Wales, M. Wieklum,
N. MeNeill,B. Steel

Regrets: L. Corbeil, M. Wren

Staff: K. Schecter

2. Introductory Remarks (informationy/ announcements)

‘The work we do atthe Brockville Public Library takes place on the traditional teritories ofthe
Huron-Wendat, Haudenosaunee, and Anishinabek Peoples.

‘With gratitude and respect, we acknowledge the significant contributions Indigenous peoples
hhave, and continue to make, on these lands.

3. Approval of the ag

da: Approved.
4. Declaration of conflict of interest: none.
5. Consent Agenda:

‘a. March 25" Board m
>. March Library report

Moved by L. Wales and seconded by B. Steel.” That the Brockulle Public Library Board approves
the March Board minutes and the March Library report with it noted that the March Financial
Report was not available at this time.” Carried,

6. For discussion/ decision:
4. Cost of Living Increase

Moved by C. Quick and seconded by L, Wales... "In compliance with a diective from the City of
Brockville, the Brockuille Public Library Board approves a 2% cost of ving increase for Library
‘employees effective January 1, 2022. Carried

b. Audit

K. Schecter updated the Board on the status of the year-end aul

¢. Homeless Issue/Building Safety
‘The Library Board discussed the current situation and staff will continue to monitor the area
‘outside the library.

7. Boutd Development - deferred

rary Board Meeting Minutes Page

Brockille Public Library Board Meeting Minutes

8. In camera moved into camera at 6:10 pm by L, Wales for the purposes of discuss
personal matters about an identifiable individual. Moved out of camera by at 6:34 pam and.
100k no action

9. Meeting Evaluation: deferred
10, Adjournment: at 6:37 pm by L. Wales

Next meeting: May 30, 2022, 5:30pm, atthe Library

{after approval)

jorary: Board Meeting Minutes


