Brockville
Public Ubrary

Brockuille Public Library Board Meeting Minutes
‘Monday August 22, 2022, 5:30pm
Buell St Room, Brockuille Public Library

1. Gallto Order 5:35pm
Present: Avon Cramon,L. Corbell (200m), 8. Steel, M. Wicklum, ML Wren, C. Quick, P. Luhadia
(zoom), L Wales let at 6 50)
Regrets: N. MeNeil
Staff: G. lark

2. Land Acknowledgement & introductory Remarks (information/announcements/
correspondence)

‘The work we do a the Brockile Public Library takes pace on the traditional territories of the
Huron-Wendat, Haudenosaunee, and Anishinabek Peoples.

‘ith gratitude and respec, we acknowledge the significant contributions Indigenous peoples have, and
‘continue to make, on these lands.

3. Approval of Agenda: Approved

4. Declaration of Conflict of Interest: None Discussion of propriety of candidates for council
remaining on Board, noted as a usual commitment with no need to resign ar take a leave of
absence,

5. Consent Agenda
‘2. July Board minutes
b. August Library report
|. Financial report
i Statistics
li, Leadership Update

Moved by C. Quick, seconded by 8, Stel... “That the Brockville Public Library Board accepts the July
Board minutes and the August Library report” Carried

6. Fordiscussion/decision
2 2022 Audit
Presentation in September

b. Meeting evaluation online responses
‘Only one response, felt not to be useful and in person roundtable more fruitful

Oe
‘engage | evolve | experience

Brockville
Public Ubrary

Brockuille Public Library Board Meeting Minutes
‘Monday August 22, 2022, 5:30pm
Buell St Room, Brockuille Public Library

& 2023 Budget planning
Preliminary budget presented, 5% increase due to Pay equity, additional
inflationary costs passed on by vendors.

Policy review
Borrowing privileges Policy #15 (was attached) - going permanentiy fine fee was
liscussed, revised Policy #15 to be brought to next Board meeting after consultation
with state

e. Board recruitment
{An ad hoc committee willbe formed to address identified gaps. Needed 3
lscussed especially financial literacy and dversty/inclusivty and reflective ofthe

‘community.
Legacy report
Preliminary document circulated via email was discusse, tobe brought back at next
meeting.
& brary safety

Safety of staff and patrons was discussed, need for adequate staffing was brought up as
‘there is often one staff member alone on the second floor on weekends and evenings.
‘Concerns we brought up about people openly doing drugs outside the library including
‘outside normal hours. The community organisation the Lost & Found Society was,
discussed. Gerladine informed the Board that staff are addressing problematic
behaviour ina non-stigmatzing way and additional trainings being pursued through
rants. Facility ssues such asthe book drop and carport were discussed asa source of
safety concerns fram the public. There was discussion ofa City Safety Audit that the
Library will be part of

h. OLAB Boot camp Feb 4, 2023
‘Will be virtual once again
7. Meeting evaluation
Round table discussion, discussion encouraged to move beyond consent agenda

Closed Session

Oe
‘engage | evolve | experience

Brockville
Public Ubrary

Brockuille Public Library Board Meeting Minutes
‘Monday August 22, 2022, 5:30pm
Buell St Room, Brockuille Public Library

None
9. Next Meeting - 2023 budget planning
10, Adjournment by M Wickum at 7.05pm
Next meeting: September 26, 2022, 5:30pm, Buell Street room and via Zoom,
Signature of Chair

von Gramon
‘August 22, 2022

‘engage | evolve | experience

