Cut to the Chase

Ontario Public Library Governance At-A-Glance

CO

‘OLBA's Leadership by Design aa

To be an effective board member: Public Library Board: 3
governing betrd and a legal
+ Know your duties, obligations, and role. Sorporatign under the Public

Recognize that only the board has the authority to act on behalf fF the management dnd
ofthe ibary; individual board members have no authority to act | emg of he public Hany,

+ Share inthe responsibilty for the effective functioning ofthe | tothe public irry: BLA
board by ensuring full discussion ofissues and making reasoned | Sectioh 3G).

deckions. 1
+ Know who you are there to represent and serve and connect | Gaverning; 4 not the some a |
with them. Siganizaion is properly un
+ Fulfil your legal obligations including duty of cae and fiduciary
uy Governance: the framework
Body io ner he Segartaton,
To be an effective governing body: identity how business il be.”
Condutted, how, power will be
+ Focus on governance soomese vided and deldgated and |
* Design mectings to suppor informed decision-making ‘what processes wil be set up
* Develop a tustng and respectiul relationship between the achieve accountability
Board and CEO and work together jrsight: the actions the
« Build a solid govermance framework that includes by avs, osetia es ecard
policies and a suategic plan that is based on why you exist: your | moniter paises, plans
mssion shalt ot Bratan apd prosecs to
+ Make good decisions on behalf of your communi fie that th
1 Botermine what information is needed in ardor to manage sk, | * Ale gehlevitg expected
* Know the composition of the board and who youneed to run” |« Represent good value
the library. TAT comBtgnce with
applicable policies, las,
‘3 Major Responsibilities sggulations, and ethical
1. Provide comprehensive and efficient public library service that rations: A CEO
telets the communty’s unique needs ‘2hsey sity guided by the
2. Submit budget estimates to the municipal council and Boird policy an strate pan.
Patipate inthe municipality's annual audit that includes Sepragons ave going te work
ard. aetvitigs witha the constraints
3. To receive annual grants from the Government of Ontario, defined through governance.
submit staistes and financial information along with completed | Examples ot peratons incude:
publi library operating and pay equity grant application forms. | * Choosing furnishings °
chicken’ grea
‘The Public Libraries Act, RSO 1990, ¢,P44.governs the operation | 4 SlIKEMS HER arame
Ot publ fives anal spect lagslaton hat con overnoe 1 Blnning tbat programs
€eftain sections of other mote general acts such as the Municipal library edlection.

‘2c. brary board i an independent body and cannot become a
Corie counclwatheutagalton beng pared that enables | Rak management: balan
pubic Horry Boar, In most Fiat Nations Communes, the Band | Weoualnpaen re eat,
Eoana aunts Pre Halder to gover he pubic itany A. pon puke tha doa
minority ot pubic bras inthe province ae governedby unin or | Souk conse for example


Board Membership
Fiduciary Duty
‘+ Members are appointed by the municipal council according to
rules set out in the Act, inth
‘= The minimum size fora library board is five members. library. The
‘The number of municipal councillors on a public library board or library must
tnion board may not exceed one less than the majority; a county
board may have'a bate majority of couneillors.
+ Library or municipal employees may not be board members.

Meeting Requirements
Duty of Care
The Public Libraries Act, Sections 16 and 17, RSO 1990, c. P44: You must u!
{Board sha hold 7 agulr meetings each yea,
+ Meetings must be apen to the pubic unless thay meet the era
outlined in PLA 16.114-6),
‘= Majority of members must be present. This includes making
* Chair may vote with other members,
* An equal vote is deemed to be negative.

‘Municipal Integration

Boards may forge closer tes wih ther municipality to maximize thei
library boards an independent body and cannot be directed by a
‘municipal to delegate its responsibilty for library funds or employer
obligations. However it can be advantageous to steamline business
practices between the wo separate organizations by way ofa Service
‘Rgreement. I must be a deciion of te puble brary boord to enter
info such a service agreement wily a munipaly wih clear guidelines

Power to Oversee the Library's Finances

Financial oversight involves:
* Understanding the implications ofa budget and a financial report.
{Recognizing if the allocation of monies algns with board prioties
+ Ensuring that facial pois ae in place to contol caving, procesting and disbursing money to
ensure fcalysound budgeting, comply wih current municipal legislation with respect to purchasing
Snd hiring, manage rks, and knit labity tothe library andthe board

Financial oversight does nat mean
= inal speoung a budget or franca repo.
+ CRenging a minuscule amount on a budget line

Power to Make Policy
Policies provide the necessary framework for library operations and priorities. Example includes:

+ Personnel and hirin

*# Purchasing °

= Prevention of Workplace Harassment

* Prevention of Workplace Violence

“Health and Safety

* Accessibilty

To be effective, policies should include specific reference to library operations

2

Power to Set Fees

The Public Libraries Act, RSO 1990, ¢. P44, sec.23 (3) allows a board to charge for:
"Use of parts ofthe library building nat being used for library purposes,
+ Library services for non-residents;
# Some services nat outlined in Regulations

Aboard is NOT permitted to charge for
‘= Admission ta the library;
* Using library materials inthe library;
+ Reserving or borrowing circulating materials specified in PLA Reg.976 Section 2.
Power to hire the CEO

The Public Libraries Act, Section 15(2) RSO 1990, c. P. 44 gives a library board the sole right to hire the
library’ chief executive officer

Legislation to Consult:
The following resources can be found online at wavu.e-laws.gov.on ca:

‘The Municipal Conflict of Interest Act, RSO 1990, c. M.50
The Municipal Freadam of Information and Protection of P ct, RSO 1990, ¢. M56

Further resources: visit the which has resources for each
year of the fouryear term for Public Library Board members.

Organizations supporting Public Libraries:

Provincial:

* Ontario Library Association, including the following divisions: Ontario Library Boards Association,

(Ontario Public Library Association, LAssociation des bibliotheques de I'Ontario-Franco, Indigenous
Advisory Coun

* Ontario Library Service

National

‘Canadian Urban Libraries Council
Canadian Federation of Library Associations

The Public Library Board & the Chief Executive Officer:
Who Does What

LEGAL ISSUES

Exiting local
sad prowl

BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES

Knows provincial laws and local bylaws,

CEO RESPONSIBILITIES

Knows provincial laws and local bylaws.

New legislation

Responds to new legislation.

Responds to new legislation.

affecting
ibraies
Library Records [Ensures records are kept, protected, | Keaps complete and accurate records in
" and reported in complance with prvacy_| compliance with privacy legislation.
iegislation, Preparer and st onal reports
Abprove leant gant applcatons | anda relevant grant sphcatine sch
and anna reports or the Government | asthe Pub Library Operating Grant
@f Ontario, such 35 the Annual Survey of |(PLOG),Pay Equity Grant (PE) and First
Publi Libraries (per PLA Reg. 976 10). _ | Nation Salary Supplement Grant ENS) a5
pplicable 2 the Government of Onto.
[Accountability Muniipal/County/Band Council and | Board

Government of Ontario.

Board meetings

‘communtry
DEVELOPMENT

Understandin
the community

Participate in all meetings.
Appoints a board secretary,

BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES

Acting in the best interest of the
‘community.

ifthe €20 is the Secretary, records and
Inia motes alienetiogs.
Provides reports regulay as dracte

the board oun y

(CEO RESPONSIBILITIES

and concerns. is

Communi
Relavorshyp
ulding

Is aware ofthe municipal prories and
plans

Buds a strong and communicative
aerate manicpaeouny/
Maintains dialogue with the community
Identifies strategic partnerships with
‘community groups and leaders.
Demonstrates accountability to the
‘community or example, presenting an
Sinnual report tothe eortmunity

Ivar ofthe mural pottes and
ids strong working relationships with
mmunicipalcountyband staf.
Forget relationships with community
sroups and lead’

Bevelops strategic partnerships with
community goups and leade's
Baranstatsaecountaity tothe
Snnual report for the community)

Libary role in
the community

Establishes, promotes, and advocates
for the library as an essential community
Builds community pride in the library

Establishes, promotes, and advocates
for the library as an essential community
Builds community pride in the library


Poucy

Library policy

PLANNING

Mission and
strategic plan

BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES

Develop governance-rlated pois
[Analyzes CEO policy recommendations.
ebsies ploy ues and mphestns
Approves poly

Entures policy implemented and
followed

Regularly reviews established policies.

BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES

[Analyzes information and feedback
from the staf, community, and other
silehoder i
weaknesses (or example SWOT analysis)
Benes misson and erate pan
Community, and other stakeholders,

CEO RESPONSIBILTIES

development kamework.
Provides information sures to infor

Seaton ay
Interprets and implements polices an

procedures to ibrary staf and the publi
Kaintaine policy manual and ensures ts
access

heute poly is followed.

(CEO RESPONSIBILITIES

Gathers information and feedback
from the staf, community, and other
SSmples ibe hs and weak

npiles ibrar strengths and weaknesses
(example: Stergih Weakoes,

artuniy, Threat analysis).

Partners wih the board in defining mission
‘and strategie plan and provides insights,

Strategie goals
and objectives

Develops and approves strategic goals.
Approves strategic objectives

Partners with he Board develop
strategic goals and provides insights.
CEO and staff develop objectives to
achieve the strategie goals

‘Administers in accordance with the plan.

[Action plan
formes
and objectives

sources (example: municipal/county/oand

Formulates plans and identifies financial
resources to meet strategic objectives,
Administers in accordance with plan.

Monitoring and
evaluation of
the strategic
plan

FINANCE

[Annual budget

plantorthe CEO. ne
needed *
Revises plan accordingly

BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES

vay preliminary budget and
Sally adopts budget

Develops a strategic plan monitoring and
‘evaluation system for library operations,
Participates in ongoing evaluation,
Adjusts plan accordingly.

CEO RESPONSIBILITE

Consults with municipal staff and advises
Board on munieipal Budget pocy
tequrement ar procedures

Prepares preliminary budget in
Conjunction with board based on present

land anticipated needs and board's plan,


Budget
presentation to
Council

the budget to coun in accordance with
Inunciplcounyfeand budget poly
ors th he CEO on presentation to

Participates in budget presentation,
supplying facts and figures, analysis and
comments as requested.

‘Works with the board on presentation to
counel

CEO expertise
Delegates to the CEO the authority for
the organization and operation of the
library and its staff.

Sustainable | Approve and advocate for options for _ | Identifies options for generatn
resources | gbheratng adtonslrevente to suppor | additonal revenue: ‘emppor Special
Special project needs and/or funding. | project needs and/or funding gaps.
ops
Financial [Appoints a Treasurer. If the CEO is Teasurer, oversees all
control Secures a bank account for the publie | accounting functions and prepares regular
measures library for deposit ofall public Horary_ | financial statements
funds Falls obligations as directed by the
Directs the disbursement ofall publie | Board
library funds into the Board's bank Monitors the budget and reports to the
account a8 outlined in PLA T5(a}) board on a regular basis
Ensures legal contol measures are in| Identifies and addresses problems as they
place to support and protect the ibrary | arise.
Essets
Ensures check and balances are in place
to expend the budget with due diligence
and in accordance with board polices.
PERSONNEL BOARD RESPONSIBILIES
CEO selection | Hires CEO.
Board-CEO | Builds a strong relationship that Builds a strong relationship that
relationship | recognizes board authority and respects. | recognizes board authority and respects

CEO expertise.

Staff selection

Hires and directs al staff, adhering to
board policies. May seek board input on
senior staff selection,

place to anal any grievances that have
fot been satefactony resolved by the
Ibranys grievance procedures

Employee [Evaluates CEO performance annually [Ensure that annual performance
perlormance ° ™ | appraisals are conducted onal staf.
Eppraisal

Salary scales [Sets CEOS sala Negotates salary and working conditions
and union” [Approves applicable staffsalary scales |forstaff including union contact as
contacts’ and/or union contact. applicable

Grievances Handles all grievances and keeps the

board informed.

CEO succession
management

Ensures that there is provision for
succession management.

Contributes input to succession
management,

6


Board

BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES

Board supports and participates in

(CEO RESPONSIBILITIE

Supports and facilitates planning and

orientation | planning'and delivery. delivery

Board Evaluates regularly. Contributes input to evaluation process.
performance _ | Individual board members conduct Assists with identifying board

and ‘annual self-appraisal development and training resources.

development

Results are shared anonymously within
the Board to strive for continuous
learning and improvernent.

Board
planning

Liszes with the appointing body and
necessary forthe incoming board to meet
Pewter calnges ;
offuture Board members that are
representative of ther community

Las with uric dal on board
Beard ° ‘sons
Helps identity community members that
could be approached to oin the Board

Legacy
planning

Summarizes the successes, challenges,
‘and outstanding action iterns to provide
the incoming board with a framework for
moving forward.

Approves the legacy document.

Provides input and suppor tothe board
for developing legaty pan,

Reviews lagacy document with incomin
Board member. .


