Brockville
Public Library

have courage | act responsibly | pursue knowledge | push boundaries | welcome everyone
Minutes: August 28th, 2023,

Present: M. Wicklum (Chair) J. Schoemaker-Holmes, C. Wales, C. Wells, L. Rayvals, C. Quick,
R_ Stobo, L. Pennell (zoom), P. Luhadia (zoom).

1. Call to Order
2. Land acknowledgement:

In the spirit of reconciliation, the Brockville Public Library acknowledges the land on which it was
cofiginaly established, and the work that it does, takes place on the territories of the
Huron-Wendat, Haudenosaunee, and Anishinabek Peoples.

We are grateful forthe significant and invaluable contributions First Nations, Inuit and Métis
Peoples have made and continue to make across Ture Island despite the historic and ongoing
‘affects of colonialism

‘As part ofthe Ontario Library Association, the staff and leadership at the Brockville Public
Library are committed to active participation in reconciliation by ampliying Indigenous voices
year-round, listening, learning, and providing resources so that we may work towards fulfling

(CELA.FCAR's Tauth & Reconciliation Committee Recommendations,

3. Introductory Remarks (information/announcements)

4, Approval of Agenda
‘Amended to add election of Vice-Chair
C. Wales, C. Quick

5. Declaration of Confict of Interest
None

6. Election of Vice-Chaie
Reid Stobo acclaimed

7. Consent Agenda
a. August 28th, 2023 Board minutes

C. Wells, C. Quick

7. For discussion
‘a. Executive ReportWelcome new members
b. Scott Newman, Cyber Security - Brockville Library's IT Geck
‘scol@brockillelibrary.ca
c. Risk assessment report - discussed amendments, deferred to next meeting
4. Policy Review Committee Presentation
‘Changes presented and available on Google Drive
Raviaw for next meeting fo approve
Motion:
"That the Brockville Library accepts the recommendation of the Policy
Review Committee to implement the new Indigenous Ways Policy,
‘effective immediately.”
C. Wells, C. wales
‘2. Accreditation update - ste visit expected in October
Budget 2024 - four year pian, presentation in November

{8 Items for next agenda (add as identified)
Budget 2024-2028
Policy review

9. . Meoting evaluation/roundtable discussion

11. Adjournment — 7.48pm C.Wales, C. Quick

2023 Meoting Datos at 5.30pm at the Brockville Library Buell Street Room :

January 30th
February 27th

March 271%

‘April 2atn

May 29th (due to May 22 being Victoria Day)
June 28

NO July Meeting

August 28

September 25

October 23,

November 27

NO December meeting

