Brockville
Public Library

have courage | act responsibly | pursue knowledge | push boundaries | welcome everyone
Minutes: April 22nd, 2024

Present: Chair M. Wicklum, Vice Chair R. Stobo, C. Wales, Zoom: C. Quick, L. Pennell
Schoomaker-Holmes, L. Rayvals
Regrets: C. Wells

41. Call to Order 5.30pm
2. Land acknowledgement:

In the spirit of reconciliation, the Brockville Public Library acknowledges the land on which it was
originally established, and the work that it does, takes place on the territories of the
Huron-Wendat, Haudenosaunee, and Anishinabek Peoples.

We are grateful forthe significant and invaluable contributions First Nations, Inuit and Métis
Peoples have made and continue to make across Ture Island despite the historic and ongoing
‘affects of colonialism

‘As part ofthe Ontario Library Association, the staff and leadership atthe Brockville Public
Library are committed to active participation in reconciliation by amplifying Indigenous voices
year-round, listening, learning, and providing resources so that we may work towards fulfling
(CFLA.FCAB's Truth & Reconciliation Committee Recommendations,

3. Introductory Remarks (information/announcements)
4. Approval of Agenda R. Stobo, L. Pennell
5. Declaration of Confict of Interest

6. Consent Agenda
a. March 25th, 2024 Board minutes amended C. Wales, C. Quick

7. For discussion
‘a, Executive Report
. InvestorLine update - R. Stobo to contact BMO
©. CEO annual review

|L__ Report from committee - feedback forms to be distributed to Board
Financial Aucit update - stil ongoing
‘Accreditation - submitted, waiting for OLS
Board Bylaws review - subcommittee of L. Rayvals, R. Stobo, C. Wells
Board Workplan - councilor advocacy relationships:

LC. Wales - His Worship M. Wren

ii, R.Stobo- P. Decry

iC. Quick -L. Severson

i. LRayals-M.Kalivas

v. J. Schoemaker-Holmes - N. Lavergne

vi. L, Pennell J. Earle

vi, C.Wells-K: Hobbes
vil, M.Wieklum = J. Fullerton

{8 Items for next agenda (add as identified)
Board Bylaws
Board Workplan
Talking points for Council relationships

8. Meeting evaluation/roundtable discussion

‘1. Adjournment 6 58pm — Next meeting: Monday, May 27nd, 2024: 6:30pm.

2024 Meoting Dates at 5.30pm at the Brockville Library Buell Street Room

January 22nd
February 26th (Due to Feb 19 being Family Day)
March 25th

‘April 22nd

May 27th (due to May 20 being Victoria Day)
June 24th

NO July Meeting

August 26th

September 231d

‘October 28th

November 25th

NO December meeting

