Brockville
Public Library

Minutes: Soptomber 30th, 2024

Present: Chair Margaret Wicklum, C, Wales, L. Rayvals, C. Quick, L. Pennell, Guest: K.
MeKinnon

1. Call to Order
2. Land acknowledgement:

In the spirit of reconciliation, the Brockville Public Library acknowledges the land on which it was
cofiginaly established, and the work that it does, takes place on the territories of the
Huron-Wendat, Haudenosaunee, and Anishinabek Peoples.

We are grateful forthe significant and invaluable contributions First Nations, Inuit and Métis
Peoples have made and continue to make across Ture Island despite the historic and ongoing
‘affects of colonialism

‘As part ofthe Ontario Library Association, the staff and leadership atthe Brockville Public
Library are committed to active participation in reconciliation by ampliying Indigenous voices
year-round, listening, learning, and providing resources so that we may work towards fulfling

(CELA.FCAR's Tauth & Reconciliation Committee Recommendations,

3. Introductory Remarks (information/announcements)
4. Approval of Agenda -L. Pennel, L. Rayvals
5. Declaration of Confict of Interest

6. Consent Agenda
‘a. August 26th, 2024 amended Board minutes - C. Quick, C. Wales

7. For discussion
‘a, Guest - Lynda Ferguson - Deferred to October 28th meeting
. Motion to request Cty Council Approve Appointment of Kate McKinnon
‘That the Brockville Public Library Board recommends that Kate McKinnon be
appointed to the Brockville Public Library Board by Brockville City Council
‘c. Vice Chair Election - L Rayvals by acclimation
4. Board Roles discussion

ity Council Meat and Greet - 6pm October 201%

2024 Grant Report

2025 Draft Budget

Board Workplan - draft process approved - L. Pennell, C. Quick

Local history Policy

“That the Brockville Library Board approved the revised Local History policy.” L
Rayvals, C Quick

{8 Items for next agenda (add as identified)
Board Work Plan
Draft 2025 Budget

9. . Meoting evaluation/roundtable discussion

11. Adjournment — 6 43pm C. Wales, L. Rayval

2024 Meoting Datos at 5.30pm at the Brockville Library Buoll Street Room :

January 22nd
February 26th (Due to Feb 19 being Family Day)
March 25th

‘April 22nd

May 27th (due to May 20 being Victoria Day)
June 24th

NO July Meeting

‘August 26th

September 231d

‘October 28th

November 25th

NO December meeting

