Brockville
Public Library

have courage | act responsibly | pursue knowledge | push boundaries | welcome everyone
Minutes: May 27th, 2024

Present: Chair M. Wicklum, Vice Chair R. Stobo, J. Schoemaker-Hiolmes, L. Rayvals, C. Wales,
Zoom: C. Quick, C. Wells

1. Call to Order
2. Land acknowledgement:

In the spirit of reconciliation, the Brockville Public Library acknowledges the land on which it was
cofiginaly established, and the work that it does, takes place on the territories of the
Huron-Wendat, Haudenosaunee, and Anishinabek Peoples.

We are grateful forthe significant and invaluable contributions First Nations, Inuit and Métis
Peoples have made and continue to make across Ture Island despite the historic and ongoing
‘affects of colonialism

‘As part ofthe Ontario Library Association, the staff and leadership at the Brockville Public
Library are committed to active participation in reconciliation by ampliying Indigenous voices
year-round, listening, learning, and providing resources so that we may work towards fulfling

(CELA.FCAR's Tauth & Reconciliation Committee Recommendations,
3. Introductory Remarks (information/announcements)
4. Approval of Agenda C. Wales, J. Schoemaker-Holmes
5, Declaration of Conflict of Interest - none

6. Consent Agenda
a. April 22nd, 2024 Board minutes R. Stobo. J. Schoemaker-Holmes

7. For discussion
a. Executive Report
. InvestorLine update - R. Stobo all papers now signed, expecting a confirmation
reply from BMO in June.
. CEQ annual review

Report from committee
ii "That the Brockville Library Board accepts the recommendations of the
‘CEO Annual Review Committee to adopt the Policy and Procedures as
resented.” J. Schoemaker-Hoimes, C. Quick
li, Confiamed that the Policy and Procedures were developed in consultation
with the City of Brockville and are aligned with City Policies and
Procedures with City staff expressing no reservations. C. Wales
4d. Financial Ault update - working with Cty
8. Accreditation
Site visits on May 17 and May 24, next (and probably final) scheduled for
June 21st
1. Draft Accessibilty Plan 2024.2026, accessibility audit - for information
9. Draft Technology Pian 2024-2026 - for information
h. Board Bylaws committee -G. Slark, L. Rayvals, C. Quick, J
Schoemaker-Holmes. To be in alighment with the Public Library Act
1. Board Workplan Committee -C. Wales, C. Wells, R. Stobo
J Board Assembly update - L Rayvals reported the Board Assembly was extremely
informative, provided a great deal of education, and emphasized ways of
‘continuing to have positive relationships with Municipal partners.

{8 Items for next agenda (add as identified)
Draft accessiilly plan

Draft Technology Pian

Board bylaw committee update

Board workplan committee update

‘CEO review

9. . Meoting evaluation/roundtable discussion

11. Adjournment - 7pm. C. Wales, R. Stobo

2024 Meoting Datos at 5.30pm at the Brockville Library Buoll Street Room :

January 22nd
February 26th (Due to Feb 19 being Family Day)
March 25th

‘April 22nd

May 27th (due to May 20 being Victoria Day)
June 24

NO July Meeting

August 26

September 23

October 28

November 25

NO December meeting,

