BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY

2016 Annual Report

engage
evolve
experience


Letter from our Chair

Brockville Pubic Library contributes to our community through programs, services and resources
which are delivered within the Library, out in the community and online.

‘A highlight this year has been the rejuvenation of the children’s space onthe mali far. Thanks to
the generous support from the Rotary Clubs of Brockville, matching funds from City Council and
several donations from local foundations familie and individuals, the space has been updated to
ensure accessibility and allow fr flexible programming. Dubbed'The Family Room it isa busy place
filled with happy children, parents, caregivers and grandparents. Library staff has already noticed a
significant $0% increase in ccculation from this area, due in part to the forward facing shelving and
the inereased accesibily

‘In October 2016, we launched an annual giving campaign titled "My Giving Library’. In this rst
year we have met our modest goal of $10,000. Fundraising has become necessary to ensure we
continue to provide quality programs and varied resources to meet our customer needs.

(Our Library Is open 7 days per week and welcomes community members of all ages and walks of lie
There is truly something for everyone here

(ur Libeary staf are creative, enthusiastic and committed to ensuring each customer has a
rewarding experience. Staff can often be found out inthe community, connecting with agencies and
Partners, roviding programs during community events and highlighting literacy and ifelong learning,
Thanks to the combined efforts of staf, volunteers, Library Board, and Friends ofthe Library, the
Broceville Public Library isa vibrant and integral contributor to the City of Brockuile and area
community

017 Board membe!

Chair: Naney Bowman ‘Chief Executive Offcer: Linda Chadwick
Vice-Chair: Leah Wales Manager of Resources & Technology: Amanda Robinson
Treasurer: Jennifer Cullen Manager of Customer Experience: Laura Julien
Chris Wanna Coordinators: Margie Bently, Lisa Cirka,
(Chuck Qulek Carolyn Yee & Brandy Smith
Rick Sands Library Assistants: Dawn Dupuls, Joyce Ferguson,
Cathy TeKamp Melanie Graham, Maggie Kim, Jackie Page, Jennifer
‘Margaret Wieklum Sechi & Lelsa Price-Storey

Student Pages: Lucas Arzoumanian, Bushra Kadbra,
Olivia Rosset, Victor Glasser & Jena Wren
‘Custodian: Mike Zuker

201 Adult Programs &
Volunteers

ers supported
jours of their time v


2016 Finances =
Accountability @ Your Library

Where the money comes from

sage S275.

saaeat

seuan/

Where the money goes...

S208) s115520

67556
ss6.87

Online Addr

Friends of the Library: Facebook. Twitter:
wor brocellirary cafiends him wwe facebook com/BrockyilePublicLibrary
friends @broclilelioraryca ‘wv twittercomBrockuilePL

ww facebook conriendeofthebreckilelbrary

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY

Strategie Plan 20132018
‘nthe short story.

Strategic Priorities at your Library:

1 Transform your library spaces
accessbilty, Functionality, aesthetics
'V Expand your access to services
business hours, fees, parking, kiosk, technology, resources
Connect with our community
customer service, marketing, outreach, partnerships, City relations
Enhance our service delivery
staffing levels, professional development, workflows, communication

2016 Qu ick Facts

30,775 Computer

& 43,620 people used our wifi
7,706 Active card holders

ustomers

129,675 Additional items used in the Library & online


2016 H ighlights


201 Children & Teen
Programming

TiokerLab: Hack

The 4
Wrapup Party Touch a Truck

'58 teen programs took place

and 441


