Brockville Public Library

Policy Type: By-Laws Policy Number: By-Laws 1 through 23
Terms of Reference

Policy Title: Board By-Laws Approval Date: November 26, 2018

Review Date: September 2022

Table of Contents
By-law: 1 Statement of Authority.

By-law: 2 Purpose of the Board.
By-Law: 3 Composition ofthe Board.
By-Law: 4 — Qualifications of a Trustee
By-law: Disqualification of a Trustee
By-law: 6 Welcome and Orientation of Members to the Board
By-law: 7 Officers of the Board.

Chair

Vice-Chair.

Secretary/Treasurer:

By-law:8 Chief Executive Officer.
By-law:9 Meetings
Regular Meetings.
Private Sessions,
Electronic Meetings
By-Law: 10 Board Responsibilities.
By-law: 11 Order of Proceedings.
By-law: 12 Conduct of Proceedings
By-Law: 13 Deputations and Presentations
By-law: 14 Rules of Debate.
By-law: 15 Motions.
By-Law: 16 Voting on Motions
By-law: 17 Committees of the Board
1. Standing Committees,


2, Ad-hoc Committees,

By-law: 18
By-Law: 19
By-Law: 20
By-law: 22
By-Law: 22
By-Law: 23
‘Appendix A:

Purpose

Financial Year
Signing Officers of the Board

Bank Accounts.

Reimbursement of Expenses

ual

‘Amendments to the Constitution and By-Laws.
Terms of Reference: Chair

Responsibilities

Term of Office

Appendix &: Terms of Reference: Vice-Chair

Purpose

Responsibilities
Term of Office

‘Appendix C: Terms of Reference: Regional Trustee Council Representative

Purpose
Responsibilities
Term of Office

‘Appendix D: Inaugural Meeting Procedures.
1. First Meeting ofthe Brockville Public Library Board
2. Elections for Officers ofthe Boar.


le Public Library: Boord By-Laws

By-Law: 1 Statement of Authority

‘The Brockull Publi Library is established in accordance with the Public Libraries Ac, R..0. 1990, c.P.4d and
{under the management and contral ofthe Brociville Public Library Board which is corporation operating
Under the authority ofthe Act.

The Brockville Public Library Board recognizes that the Act sets out procedures for the appointment of
members ofthe Board, the qualifications of members, term of membership, dsqualfication of members, and
‘vacancies onthe Board

Board motion number: 034 - 2018 Date: November 26,2018,

Signature of Chair

vile Public brary: Boord By-Laws Page 30f 30


Board By-Laws

By-Law: 2 Purpose of the Board

‘The Brockville Public Library offers a wide range of programs, services, and programs, services and resources
toall customers. The library is both a repository of print and non-print materials and a point of access to
resources hel in libraries and institutions across the province, the country and world-wide.

‘The Board will establish all policies, rules and regulation for implementing the mission vision and values of
the library in an effort to:

1. Provide free and equal access to library service to every customer.
2. Provide attractive and efficient surroundings that encourage the use ofthe library facility and
3. Coordinate with other libraries to improve library service locally, regionally, provncially and
rationally
4. Provide the best service through the appointment of qualified and competent personnel
'S. Support and cooperate with other groups in the communities that provide cultural and
educational programs
6. Informal residents ofthe City ofthe services offered by the library and the value ofthese
7._ Proactively engage in strategic planning and community surveys to understand commurity needs
and to provide customer-driven services
8, Work withthe City Council and athers to reach the levels of funding that are necessary to realize
the Library's objectives,
9, Provide a venue for cultural and educational activities.
Board motion number: 034-2018 Date: November 26,2018,
Signature of the Chal

vile Public Lbrary: Board By-Laws Page 4 of30

br Board By-Laws

By-Law: 3 Composition of the Board

1. The Board consists ofa minimum of five and a maximum of nine trustees appointed by the City
Council. Only one ofthese postion is an appointed City Councillor. The appointed trustees will be the
voting members of the Board.

2. Trustees are appointed under the authority ofthe Public Libraries Act and operate under the
regulations ofthe Act.

3. Amember ofthe Board will hold office forthe term of City Council or until a successors appointed
‘They may alo be reappointed for more than one term, A member seeking re-appointment follows the
process of application required bythe City.

4. Vacancies
‘Where vacancy arises in the membership of a Board, the appointing Couneil will promptly appoint
person to filthe vacancy and to hod office fr the unexpired term, except where the unexpired term
's less than forty-five days. RS.O. 1990, c. Pd, s. 12

5. Notice of vacancies

‘The Broce City Clerk will give public notice of vacancies on the Board by publishing 3 notice inviting
‘open applications from residents of the City. RS.0. 1990, P44, . 11 (2.

Board motion number: 034-2018 Date: November 26,2018,

Signature of the Chair

vile Public Lbrary: Board By-Laws Page 5 of30


br Board By-Laws

By-Law: 4 Qualifications of a Trustee

To qualify 25a trustee a person must be
1. at least eighteen years ol,
‘Canadian citizen

2
3. aresident ofthe Gity of Brocll for which the Boards established,
4 not employed by the Board or the City of Brockville

Other qualities ofa Trustee:

1 An interest in the community inthe library, and in thelbrarys importance as an integral part ofthe
‘community's cultural, recreational and educational facilities.

2. Areadiness to volunteer time and effort to cary ut his/her duties
4. An ability to work well with other trustees staff, nd the public served by the library.
5. An open mind, intellectual curiosity, and 2 respect fo the opinions af others

6. The initiative and ability to establish policies forthe successful operation ofthe library and inclusive
service forall customers,

7. The courage to plan creatively, to execute plans effectively and to embrace diversity.

Board motion number: 034-2018 Date: November 26,2018,

Signature of the Chair

vile Public Lbrary: Board By-Laws Page 5 0f30


br Board By-Laws

By-Law: 5 Disqualification of a Trustee

|ABoard member's seat becomes vacant andthe remaining members will forthwith declare the seat vacantifa
member:

1. Is convicted of an indictable offence,
2. Becomes incapacitated,

3. absent from the meetings ofthe Board for three consecutive meetings without being authorized by
3 Board resolution,

4. Ceases to be qualified for membership under clause 19(1[c Library Act and/or as per By-Law: 4

5. Forfits his/her seat
‘The Board will notify the appointing Council accordingly.

Board motion number: 034-2018 Date: November 26,2018,

Signature of the Chair

vile Public Lbrary: Board By-Laws Page 7 0f30

Brockville Public

iprary: Board By

By-Law: 6 Welcome and Orientation of Members to the
Board

‘The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) will ensure that all new Board members, before ther first Board meeting,
receive an introduction to the library, its facilites, staff and services.

Each Board member will receive the current Library Board Development Kit produced by Southern Ontario
Library Service, Local information will be inserted ito this kit including

1 The library's by-laws and policy statements,
2. Guidelines forthe postion af Library trustee,

3. The Libra’ current budget,

4. The Libra current Stratesie Plan,

5. The Libra latest aulted financial statement and Annual Report,

6. Thernames, addresses and telephone numbers of other members,

7. Apackage of materials rom the previous meeting (minutes, reports, et.)
8. The eurent Board Work plan

Each Board member will provide a police records check (PIC) tothe CEO. The fee willbe reimbursed by the
Nrary. The required police check may be collected through the City application process.

foard members have an obligation to disclose to the Board Chair any citcumstances that will prevent a clear
(CPIC. The Board Chair will declare any such circumstances to the Vice Chat.
Board motion number: 034-2018 Date: November 26,2018,

Signature of the Chair

Trockuille Public Library: Board By-Laws Page #0f 30


iprary: Board By

By-Law: 7 Officers of the Board
Chair

‘ABoard wil elect one ofits members as 3 Char at its ist meeting inthe new term. (Public Library Act,
Revised Statues of Ontario, 1990, chapter P.44).

‘The function of the Chairs to act as an official representative ofthe library in a leadership role to the
Board, ensuring that business is dealt with expeditiously

'See Appendix A: Terms af Reference: Chair of the Board)

Vice-Chair

‘The Board will elect a Vice-Chair fr the term concurrent withthe Chair's term,
[Additional duties may be undertaken by the Vice-Chair atthe Board's request.
‘The Vice-Chair may act as one ofthe signing officers

(See Appendix &: Terms of Reference: Vice-Chair of the Board)

Secretary /Treasurer

In accordance withthe Public Libraries Act, 5 15 (3) & (4), the board shall appoint a secretary and a

‘treasurer In accordance with the Public Libraries Act, §15(5), the CEO will act as Secretary/Treasurer for
the Library Boar.

Board motion number: 034-2018 Date: November 26,2018,

Signature of the Chai

Trockille Pub

brary: Board By Laws Page 90f 30

Board By-Laws

By-Law: 8 Chief Executive Officer

1. The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) isnot a voting member of the Board.
2. The CEO will serve as Secretary/Treasurer ofthe Board
3. The Board wil establish 2 job description, hours of work, salary and benefit for the CEO position.

4. The jab description will clearly delegate authority and lst the duties assigned to the position and
establish the reporting relationships of the CEO.

5. The Board wil conduct an annual evaluation ofthe performance of the CEO to ad in setting objectives
forthe next year

Board motion number: 034-2018 Date: November 26,2018,

Signature of the Chair

vile Public Lbrary: Board By-Laws Page 100f30


Board By-Laws

By-Law: 9 — Meetings

The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) wil call the inaugural meeting ofthe Board in each new term upon receipt of
the confirmation of appointments from the City Clerk and a by-law from the City Council. (See Inaugu
Meeting Procedures)

Regular Meetings
4. The Board will meet monthly for a minimum of 10 meetings per year
2. Ave (5) day notice stating the purpose ofthe meeting wll be given to every member.

3. A meeting of the Board may be called bythe Chair or any two members ofthe Board for a special
meeting ofthe Board. Twenty-four hour (24) notice wl be given to every member. No business
‘other than that specified will be discussed

4. Aquorum will consist of 50% plus one voting member, being a majority. No oteisto be taken
without a quorum. Inthe absence ofa quorum, the meeting willbe reschediled.

'5. The Chair, or in his/her absence the Vice Chair ar anather person appointed by the Goard will preside
at the meetings.

66. The CEO willbe in attendance at all regular meetings. The CEO may be excluded at the request ofthe
Board from meetings scheduled to discuss his/her performance or salar.

7. The agenda for each Board mesting wll be prepared by the CEO in consultation withthe Chair. A
Board member wil notify the Chair and CEO ifthey wish to include an item atleast 10 days prior to the
meeting.

8. All meetings will be open tothe public. An exception will be made for issues of intimate financial or
personnel matters requiring protection against the consequences of public disclosures

Private Sessions
if the Boards ofthe opinion that private financial or personal details may be disclosed ata Board meeting 2

Private Session may be called.

1. When the doard determines that matters should be dealt with in the absence ofthe public or a staff
‘member, a motion to move into a Private Session must be moved, secanded and approved by a
majority vote.

2. During the Private Session the Secretary must keep records of the motions made and the directions
given.

3. Atthe conclusion ofthe Private Session a mation must be moved, seconded and approved by a
‘majority vate to return to the public meeting.

vile Public brary: Board By Laws Page 11 of 30

Board By Lows

4. During the public meeting a motion to confirm any motions approved during the Private Session will
bbe made

5. Copies of records ofa Private Session willbe distributed ata subsequent Board meeting but wll be

returned tothe Secretary. One copy must be kept in a confidential file. Additional copies will be
destroyed immediately

Electronic Meetings

1 Electronic meetings may be held via telephone, e-mail or other communication technologies provided
all participants are able to communicate with each other simultaneously,

2._ Persons 50 participating are deemed tobe present a the meeting and are counted inthe quorum.
3. Electronic meetings are an exception that the Board may use in an emergency.

4. Motions made during an electronic meeting shall be confirmed and recorded atthe next regular
meeting

5. Private session items will nat be addressed at an electronic meeting

‘Board mation number: 034 ~ 2018 Date: November 25,2018

Signature of the Chair

Trockuille Public Library: Board By-Laws Page 12 of30


Board By-Laws

By-Law: 10 Board Responsibilities

1 The Board governs the Library but does not manage the Library. The Board delegates authority tothe
(CEO to manage the operations ofthe Library

2. The Board bears responsibilty fr the Library and should, therefore, carry iablty insurance forthe
staff and the public.

3. The Board reviews Library policies atleast once during their term and approves changes as needed
4. The Board hires and if necessary, dismisses the CEO.

5. The Board approves the budget.

6. The Board approves the salary scales and the rate of pay.

7. The Board appraves submission of all eports requested or required by Municipal Cuneo the
Government af Ontario,

8. The Board wil welcome new Board memibers and provide a formal introduction to the internal
organization ofthe Library.

9. The Board wil establish, support and participate in planned public relations programs in conjunction
with the CEO.

10, The Board will support the annual budget once it's approved for presentation to Council. The Board
will attend Council meetings on budget day and be prepared to lobby for adequate funding for Library

11, The trustees will become familar with the Public Libraries Act, 1990.

12, Trustees will attend Board meetings. Regular Board meeting attendance by all trustees is essential to
the effective operation ofthe Library Board

13. The Board will appoint a provincial trustee representative who will attend Trustee Council meetings.
‘The Board will ensure money is included in the budget for such expenses. (See Terms of Reference:

Trustee Council Representative)

14, The Board will encourage and budget for trustee professional development as needs and
opportunities arse

15. The Board will evaluate its own performance ona regular basis.
Board motion number: 034-2018 Date: November 26, 2018,

Signature ofthe Chair

vile Public brary: Board By Laws Page 13 of 30

Board By-Laws

By-Law: 11 Order of Proceedings

1, -Meetings wil be called to order as s00n after the fixed hour as a quorum is present.

According tothe Public Libraries Act s16(5 he presence ofa majority ofthe boord is necessary forthe
transaction of business at a meeting.

2. Asthe Brochille Public Library Board is composed af nine members, five or more members wil
Constitute a majority ofthe members of the board. No business ofthe Board wil be transacted except at
a meeting at which a majority ofthe board i present

3. Where quorum snot present within thirty minutes after the hour fixed for meeting, the Secretary
will record the names ofthe Board members present and the meeting wll stand adjourned unt the next
‘meeting or until a special meeting is called

4. The CEO will notify all members ofthe Board that the meeting s canceled when notified by a majority
(of Board members oftheir anticipated absence from a meetin.

5. Inthe absence ofthe Chair, the Vice-Chair wil preside. Inthe absence ofthe Chair and the Vice-Chair
another member appointed wil assume the chair and preside.

6. The CEO will ecord the minutes of the meeting,

‘The order of business forall egular meetings ofthe Board will be as follows:
Call to order

Introductory remarks (information/announcements/correspondence)
‘Approval of Agenda

Declaration of @ Conflict of Interest

Consent Agenda

For dscussion/decision

Policy Review
3. Forexploration

9. Items for next agenda (add as identified)
20. Meeting Evaluation

41. Adjournment ~ Next Meeting

Board motion number: 034-2018 Date: November 26, 2018,

Signature ofthe Chair

vile Public Lbrary: Board By-Laws Page 14 of 30

Board By-Laws

By-Law: 12 Conduct of Proceedings
Ie wil be the duty of the Chair to:
1. Open meetings ofthe Board by caling the trustees to order.
22. Announce the busines before the Board inthe order of which it is tobe acted upon,
3._ Receive and submit inthe proper manner, all motions presented by the trustees of the Boar.

4. Putt vote all mations which are moved and seconded in the course of proceedings and to announce
the results,

'5. Decline to put to vate mations which infringe upon the rules of procedure.
66. Restrain the members, when engaged in debate, within the rules of order.
17. Exclude any person from a meeting for improper conduct
1. Enforce the observance of order and decorum amang the members.
9. Authenticate, by signing allby-laws, resolutions and minutes ofthe Board
10, Represent and support the Boar, declaring its wl, and imply obeying its decisions nal things
11, Receive all messages and communications and announce them to the Board
12. Appoint trustees to committees.
13. Ensue that the decisions ofthe Board are in conformity withthe laws and by-laws governing the
‘activites of the Board
Board motion number: 034 ~2018, Date: November 26,2018

Signature of the Chair

vile Public Lbrary: Board By-Laws Page 15 of30

Brockville Public Library: Board By-Lows

By-|

1

‘Law: 13 Deputations and Presentations

Delegations or individuals wishing to make a presentation to the Board must nati the CEO by no later
than 5:00pm, ten calendar days prior to the Board meeting and provide written information about the
subject ofthe presentation

‘The Board will be provided with a written summary ofthe presentation where applicable that will be
‘made atthe Board meeting. This information willbe provided to the Board, by way of the CEO, no
later than 5:00pm five calendar days prior to the Board meeting

Delegations and presentations willbe limited to ten (10) minutes of time. The Board may extend this
time limit asit sees fit,

[As the conclusion of the presentation, Board members may ask questions for information or
clarification purposes ony. There will be no presumption onthe part ofthe presenters that a
discussion or debate wil ake place or thatthe Board will make a decision at that time or at any other
‘meeting ofthe Board, The Board may opt to receive the information provided for information
purposes only.

[Any mations arising from the presentation must be made atthe appropriate time inthe agenda or at @
future meeting ofthe Board,

‘The Board reserves the right ta limit the number of delegations presenting at any given meeting and
the number of delegations on any given topic

Board motion number: 034-2018 Date: November 26,2018,

Signature of the Chair

vile Public brary: Board By Laws Page 16 0f30

Board By-Laws

By-Law: 14 Rules of Debate
In directing the course of debate, the Char wil
1. Preserve order and decide questions of order.
2. Designate the member who has the floor when two or more members wish to speak

3._ State all motions presented or require the Secretary to read the motion before permitting debate on
the question.

4. Put the question to vote when all members wishing to speak to it have spoken once or when further
‘debate will not serve to advance the business before the Board.

In addressing the Board, no member wil
1. Speak offtopic to the question in debate,

22. Reflect upon any prior determination of the Board except to conclude such remarks with a motion to
rescind such determination.

3. Interrupt the member who has the floor except to raise a pont of order.

4. Speak more than once tothe same question, except upon the consideration af areport referred by a
‘committee to the Board for a decision, n explanation ofa statement that has been incorrectly
interpreted or with permission ofthe Board after all ather members so desiring have spoken,

[Any member may require the question or motion under discussion tobe read at any time during the debate
Every member present, when a question is put, wll vote unless a member has declared a conflict of interest. A
‘member who refuses to vote will be deemed tovate in the aiemative.

Board motion number: 034-2018 Date: November 26,2018,

Signature of the Chair

Brockile Publi Library: Board By-Laws Page 17 of 30


Board By-Laws

By-Law: 15 Motions

1. A motion must be seconded before it can be debated, put to vote, or recorded inthe minutes.

2. After motion has been properly moved and seconded, ican only be withdrawn by a resolution
approved by the Board,

3. A motion, properly presented before the Board, must receive disposition before any other motion to
‘amend, jour, extend hours of proceedings, or on a matter of privilege.

4. Only one motion to amend the main motion will balowed,

'5. Amotion to adjourn isnot debatable, cannot be amended, andif resolved in the negative, cannot be
‘made again until after some immediate proceeding has been completed by the Board

66. Amotion for reconsideration ofa question which has been decided upon but not acted upon may be
made at any time by 2 memiber who voted on the question withthe majority and until the motion for

reconsideration has received disposition no further discussion of the question will be allowed.

7. Amotion containing future proposals may be divided with agreement of the Boar.
Board motion number: 034-2018 Date: November 26,2018,

Signature of the Chair

Brockile Publi Library: Board By-Laws Page 18 of 30


Board By-Laws

By-Law: 16 Voting on Motions

1, The Chair may vote withthe other members of the Board on all questions.

2. Any question on which there is an equality of vaes, for and against, willbe deemed to be a negative

3. Only committee members may move and second motions and vote in committee meetings. All Board
‘members may participate in discussions of matters before the committee.

4. A separate vote willbe taken upon each proposal contained in a divided question withthe approval of
the Board,

5. Voting will normally be bya show of hands.

6. Upon the request of a member who was present when the question was stated a recorded vote will be
taken,

7. Asthe CEO isnot a member of the Board, the CEO does not cast a vote

Board motion number: 034-2018 Date: November 26,2018,

Signature of the Chair

vile Public Lbrary: Board By-Laws Page 19 0f30


iprary: Board By

By-Law: 17 Committees of the Board

‘The Board may appoint standing or ad-hoc committees at ay ine

‘The Board wl be responsible for establishing Terms of Reference and spcic duis for each commitee
‘The purpose of committee sto faciitate and expedite the business ofthe Board. The committees evew all
‘materials referred to them by the Board and prepare reports and recommendations to be presented tothe
tore

1. Standing Committees

‘tthe frst meting of each commie a Chair wile elected frm the committe members appointed

‘The Board Char and the CEO are ex-officio members onal committees

Meetings of committees may be called by the Char of the committee or by a majority ofthe members of a
committee

Committees will operate with the terms of reference established and approved by the Board. The terms of

reference may be amended on a 2/3 majority vote by the Board

2. Ad-hoc Committees

‘Ad-hoc committees may be appointed to deal with specific, non-regular items of business.
Board motion number: 034-2018 Date: November 26,2018,

Signature of the Chair

Trockuille Public Library: Board By-Laws Page 200f30


Board By-Laws

By-Law: 18 Financial Year

‘The Financial year ofthe Brockville Public Library Board will terminate on the 31" day of December in each
year.

Board motion number: 034-2018 Date: November 26,2018,

Signature of the Chair

Brockile Publi Library: Board By-Laws Page 21 of 30


br iprary: Board By

By-Law: 19 Signing Officers of the Board
The Board wil appt a minimum of tha sgning fics of the Boar

All cheques or other orders forthe payment af money in the name ofthe Board will be signed by two of the
signing officers ofthe Board

Board motion number: 034-2018 bate:

November 2, 2018

Signature of the Chair

Trockuille Public Library: Board By-Laws

Page 22 of30

Board By-Laws

By-Law: 20 Bank Accounts

Bank accounts required for the business of the Board will be opened in the Board's name by the Treasurer in
branches of chartered banks, trust companies or credit unions as the Board may determine by resolution

Board motion number: 034-2018 Date: November 26,2018,

Signature of the Chair

Brockile Publi Library: Board By-Laws

Page 23 of 30

Brockville Public Library: Boord 8

By-Law: 21 Reimbursement of Expenses

The Board wil, upon submission of receipts, reimburse its members for travel and other expenses incurred in
carrying out their assigned duties as members of the Board,

Board motion number: 034-2018 Date: November 26,2018,

Signature of the Chair

rE

ville Pubic ibrar: Board By-Laws Page 24 0f30

Board By Lows

By-Law: 22 Audit

‘The accounts of the Board wll be audited by auditors appointed by the City of Srockulle atthe conclusion of
each financial year. Under special circumstances, the Board may request an audit at anytime.

‘The CEO will receive copies ofthe Library’s audited financial statement from the City, distribute a copy to each
Board member and file two copies wit the Libra’ offical records.

‘Board mation number: 034 ~ 2018 Date: November 25,2018

Signature of the Chair

Trockuille Public Library: Board By-Laws Page 25 of 30


Brockville Public

iprary: Board By

By-Law: 23 Amendments to the Constitution and By-Laws

1 The Library Board is to review the Constitution and By-Laws inthe first year o its terms of office
2. Amendments to this Constitution may be effected by a member with the delivery of notice in writing
to the Board which wil then be brought forward tothe next meeting to be dealt witht will require a

two-thirds majority vote

3. Amendments to these By-Laws ofthe Library Board may be adopted at any meeting of the Board by 2
majority vote

Board motion number: 034-2018 Date: November 26,2018,

Signature of the Chair

Trockuille Public Library: Board By-Laws Page 26 0f30


Appendix A: Terms of Reference: Chair

Purpose

‘The primary role ofthe Chair of the Board is to ensure the proper functioning ofthe Board and the proper
conduct of Board busines in accordance with appropriate legislation and prescribed rules of procedure.

Responsibilities

1. The Chair ofthe Brockville Public Library Board willbe responsible fr:
2._ Presiding at regular and special meetings of the Board

3. Conducting Board meetings in accordance withthe Public Libraries Act 1990, other relevant legislation
and withthe rules of procedure adopted by the Board

4. Serving as an ex-officio member ofall Board Committees.
5. Acting as one of the authorized signing officers of all documents pertaining to Board business.

6. Representing the Board at any pubic or private meetings forthe purpose of conducting, promoting
completing the business ofthe Board

7. Determining the responsibilities ofthe Board in unclear situations.

8. Ensuring that vacancies on Board Committees are filled as quickly as possible,

9, Advising the Vice-Chair if he/she is temporarily unable to perform any ofthe above duties.
‘The Chair will not commit to any course of ation without the authority ofthe Board asa whole.

Term of Office

‘The Chair will be appointed fr a two (2} year term, which may be renewed until the end ofthe term ofthe
lected City Council. At the first Board meeting of a new Council term, the Library Board will elect a Board
‘member tobe the Chait.

ard Motion number: 024 ~ 2018 Date: November 26,2018,

Signature of Chair:

Trockuille Public Library: Board By-Laws "age 27 of 30


Appendix B: Terms of Reference: Vice-Chair

Purpose

The primary role ofthe Vice-Chair ofthe Board sto ensure the proper functioning ofthe Board and the proper
conduct of Board business when the Board Chair is temporarily unavalable,

Responsibilities

1. The Vice-Chair willbe vested with all the powers and will perform all the duties ofthe Chair when they
are absent

2. The Vice-Chair willbe given ather authorities and duties as may be assigned by the Board from time to

Term of Office

‘The Vice-Chair willbe appointed fora two (2) year term, which may be renewed until the end ofthe term of
the elected City Council. At the first Board meeting of 2 new Council term, the Library Board will elect @ Board
‘member to be the Vice-Chair.

Board Motion number: 034-2018 Date: November 26,2018,

Signature of Chair

Trockuille Public Library: Board By-Laws age 28 of 30


Bro

Public Library: Board 8

Appendix C: Terms of Referenc
Representative

Regional Trustee Council

Purpose
Coordinated by the Ontario Public Library Board Assocation (OLBA) and Southern Ontario Library Services
(S015), the Regional Trustee Counc Representative wll provide 2 communication Ink between atheribrary
boards and the Brockle Public brary Board
Responsibilities
‘The Regional Trustee Counc Representative wi:

1. Attend the Regional Trustee Counc meetings, two or three times yea.

2. Share brary related information, questions and plans with the Relonal Counc meeting

3 Deliver a verbal report ta the Board following the Regional Trustee Counc meeting

Term of Office

‘The Regional Trustee Council Representative willbe appointed forthe term af the elected City Council. At the
first Board meeting of@ new term, the Library Board will appoint a Board member to be the Regional Trustee
Council Representative,

Board motion number: 034-2018 Date: November 26,2018,

Signature of Chair:


Appendix D: Inaugural Meeting Procedures

1. First Meeting of the Brockville Public Library Board

‘The Chief Librarian / CEO shal call a meeting ofthe Brockile Public Library Board [the “Board”, within one
‘month ofthe appointment ofa new Board in each term and on written notice ta all persons appointed 2s
Board members, as per the Publi Libraries Act, RSO 1990, c.P.44, s 14(1) [the “PLA")

2. Elections for Officers of the Board

[At the fist mesting ofthe new term, the Chief Librarian / CEO shall cll the meeting to order and read the
‘names ofthe members appointed to the Board.

‘The Chair and the Vice-Chair shall be elected by the Board atts first meeting inthe new term. PLA, s.14(3))
‘The Chief Librarian / CEO shall act as chair pro tem durin the election for the psition of Chair.

Nominations for Chair shall be made, with no seconder required. Nominations shall be closed by motion made
and seconde. only one person has been nominated, that person shall be deciared elected. f more than one
person has been nominated, the Chair shall be elected by secret ballot. The member receiving 50% plus one af
the votes cast shall be declared elected as Chair by the Chie Librarian / CEO but the vote count shall not be
disclosed. Should no member receive SOX plus one ofthe votes, the Chie Librarian / CEO shall decare this
and balloting shal proceed until a Chairs elected

Following election, the Chair shall chair the meeting and call for nominations for Vice-Chair. Ifthe Chairs not
present, the Chief Librarian / CEO shal call for nominations for Vice-Chair. The election of Vice-Chair shall be
Conducted in the same manner as that for Chai.

if nether the Chair nor the Vice-Chair isin attendance at meeting, members ofthe Board shall by motion,
appoint one of their wn members to be Chai pro tem. [PLA s. 14(8)]2

In the event that the office of Chair becomes vacant, the Vice-Chair shall assume the office forthe unexpired
term. n the event the office of Vice-Chair becomes vacant, anew Vice-Chair shal be elected inthe same
‘manner a3 outlined above,

‘The Chair and Vice Chaie shall serve fora term as described inthe Terms of Reference - Appendix A and 8.

Tibrary: Board By Lows

