Brockville
Public Library

hone 613 382 3938 Por 613342 9508+ ochyean.ck

2017 Annual Report

‘The images and graphics in our 2017 Annual Report help to tel part ofthe story for the Brockile Public
Library (GPL). The evidence confirms increased use ofthe Library resources, experiences and services
provided within the Buell Street building, in community locations and vitually through online access.
‘These improvements are the result of the coordinated efforts from many people and supporting
organizations

‘The City of Brocuille provides 2 significant portion ofthe operating budget through tax-based funding,
‘The buildings owned and maintained by the City and several recent faclity upgrades have helped to
‘ensure an accessible, welcoming and safe space for customers. The Library is critical asset forthe City
of Brockville

{PL staff members are recognized for their innovative programs, connections with community
‘organizations and service to customers. You are likely to be welcomed by them inthe library, in 2
‘community location or even on a trail leading young explorers. Volunteers, with a wide range of
interests and talents, contribute dally to the library's success and delivery of service. We are also
fortunate ta have an active and supportive Friends ofthe Brockville Public Library group, who
‘enthusiastically promote literacy and local authors. Ther renowned bake and treasure sales provide
{nds for some ofthe furnishings and program supports, which further enhance the experience of
rary visit

‘As noted in the 2017 Annual Report, the Library is frtunate to have the support and encouragement
‘rom several partners and community groups who provide funding and/or program support. The Library
is increasingly dependent upon donations and grants to provide quality services, programs and up-to
date resources. We are thankful to our donors for their support; donations of any size are welcomed
and make a difference within this community.

Im 2018, we are reviewing our current Strategic Plan celebrating the accomplishments and identifying
‘the areas stil requiring attention. We look forward to refreshing our focus and priorities for action;
‘actions that will meet the needs of our community. BPL actively serves people f all ages, interests, and
_blites, thus providing a comerstone for a healthy community.

Naney Bowman, Chair Brockville Public Library

I 'zrgage [evolve [experience

Brockville
Public Library

engage | evolve | experience

2017 Annual Report

Items borrowed 2017 Library visits 2017 Number of library
cardholders

ttitttittitititittit
it

titi
P| ttittitiitiitiiitiit
tttttttititiititiitt |
f20125} tttttttitttiittititt

inpersen 124 548 ponte)

mrvet matte MAW etalon Orin (webate & catstogn) 123462 peopl) M2018 M2016 612017
Fruits Veggie program Experience Collecion New Children's Seion Virtuo Realty
‘ise bite TWsne weeded On Foi Day 7s ay tw eed ot 0
ccnmatyercldeeteliy ——Eprtnatateron ae tpecdeerenpaed” Sl eed ey)
“tiktacwessdie’ easy nS: Thor Gye cle 7
‘atom epee ‘ae ‘opti th esl we

Step he Liar ost or
won

2017 Finances*

Where your money comes from

where oir woneyigoes
— —

The Ross W. McNeil
Foundation

& EbuCATION cera

SEES ESRI oe

sp FOUNDATION — SRS
<¢

pears mocpe
PRIDE
Career Services
eens eas nn bs .
To all of our supporters this year. ery
Thank you!
Contact Us Library Hours
23 uel, Brockle Mon 0m Ypm
siasazave {Wet Wed, Thurs Sam ebm
blosbrociflelbxar.co rasa! gom- Spm
Sin "pms
wor brockeorary.ca

‘wwe facebook com/BrockvilePubicLbrary
‘wor twitter com/BrockvilePL, “Cloted Sundays otlong weekends

