BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY

Community Needs
Assessment

FINAL REPORT 2013

“In an age of ‘commodified everything’, which is the culture we
seem to find ourselves in, if public libraries had not existed
before today, would this society create them?”

Wendy Newman, Senior Fellow at the University of Toronto

Brockville Public Library

Tel 613-342.9096 223 Buoll Steet; Box 100 wurw.brockeillelbrary.ca
Fax 613-342.9598 Brockville ON KBV 517 info@brockvileibrary.ca

"Report prepared by:

@Biz Xcel

wuw.bizxcel.com

BROCKVILLE

Pg. 02 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT
Contents
Executive Summary 3
Context and Objectives, 4
Project Approach 5
Library and Area Overview 7
Standards and Comparison Research 10
Report on Findings from Interviows 16
Report on Findings from Community Engagement Survey. 20
Qualtative Resuits: Summaries of Open Field Survey Comments 22
Comparative Analysis of Survey Data 99
conclusion 126
contac Information 128
‘Appendix A: Comment Samples 120
‘Appendix 8 Charts 145

@Biz*cel

Pg. 03

A good library will
never be too neat,
‘or too dusty,
because
‘somebody will
always be in it,
taking books off
the shelves and
‘staying up late
reading them."

- Lemony Snicket

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Executive Summary

“The Brockvile Public Library (BPL) undertook a Community Needs Assessment in
lead upto the development of ther 2019-2015 Stratogic Plan. As par of these
processes, a survey was done ofthe community, which received over 1300

responses. In addition, interviews were conducted with key partners. The process also
included research around best practices and minimum standards, as wel as
comparisons to siilary sized libraries

‘Community Needs Assessment
‘The survey results indicate that the brary is wellegarded by its members and by the
‘community. The majority of users ranked their experiences withthe library as being
very postive, The most frequently cited strengths ofthe lbrary were: the staff, the
‘lection and variety of books, the brary space (layout, organization, cleanliness, and
‘openness), the downtown location, and the overall collection and selection of

‘While this is good news for the library, comments and examples where people have
‘expressed dissatisfaction or had a less than postive experience are valuable pieces
Cf information for the libcary to use as it takes staps to improve its services and
{aciltis forall clients. The most frequently cited areas for improvement were: décor,
‘and atmosphere (low light levels, dated décor, and musty smell), hours of operation,
limits tothe collection/selection of resources, parking, and location (inconvenient),

‘The most common themes that arose from the feedback were around advocacy
(disseminating information about the role of the Library and the services available to
‘combat misperceptions), atmosphere (continue to update and modernize the physical
space), and accessibilty (increasing hours, decreasing fees, finding better parking
‘options, etc). The Library will be able to use the information gathered through this,
process as it develops its strategic objectives and priorties moving forward,

(@BizXcel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 04 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Context and Objectives

The Brockville Public Library (BPL) undertook a Community Needs Assessment in
lead up to the development of their 2013-2015 Strategic Plan,

The objectives of the Community Needs Assessment were:

‘+ To gain a better understanding of the needs of the community, both of current
members and non-members, leading to improved services, increased
membership, and more opportunities for advocacy and partnership.

‘+ To-engage and solicit feedback from community members, library members,
partners, and funders on the quality of BPL programs and services using
surveys, focus groups and interviews.

The overall goal ofthis project was to gather contextual information for use during the
"Knowing that | strategic planning process. Feedback from the community isa vital piece of

loved my books, information forthe Library to use while developing their priorities moving forward.

he furnished me,

From mine own

library with

volumes that |

prize above my

dukedom.

william
Shakespeare
(The Tempest)

@Biz*cel

Pg. 05

“Allibrary book...is
not, then, an
article of mere
‘consumption but
fairly of capital,
and often in the
case of
professional men,
setting out in lite,
is their only
capital.”

Thomas Jefferson

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Project Approach

‘The following strategies were used to conduct each of the elements ofthis project

‘Community Survey/Community Engagement:
BizxXcel conducted consultations withthe staff and Board at the Library to prioritize
{questions and areas of interest for drafting the Community Engagement Survey. The
Library decided to build a relatively comprehensive survey to gather as much
information as possible at one time. Drafts of the survey were prepared by BizXcel
‘and were edited with input rom a committee atthe Library that included both staff and
Board members. The final results wore formatted into online and hard-copy surveys.

‘The community engagement survey was hosted by BizXcel and was published
through a link made avaiable to the community. It was also directly accessible from a
landing page on the Library website. Several strategies were followed to maximize the
‘number of people reached:

‘+ Extensive sharing and linking via social media sites — both by the Library and
their partners.
‘+ Partner email distribution lists (Chamber of Commerce, EEC, Every Kid in Our
‘Communities, Upper Canada District Schoo! Board)
‘© Alist of partners was drafted and emailed with the link and a plea for
assistance in distributing via their networks.
‘+ Anartcle appeared on the EMC website.
‘+ BPL CEO Linda Chadwick appeared on Cogeco’s FYI lunch-time spot to
‘promote the survey.
‘+ Hard copy surveys were delivered, along with an in-person presentation, to the
following groups:
‘© The Brockville Lions Club
© The Brockville Rotary Club
© 200 students at St. Mary Catholic High School

@Biz*cel

Pg. 06

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘+ Internally, the Library promoted the survey via hard-copy and online to all
Library users and program participants.

In addition, Bi2Xcel interviewed five people one-on-one, representing key partners of
the library. The results of these interviews were summarized thematically, highlighting
the recommendations and feedback trom these important community figures.

Research was conducted using publically available documentation on topics including
the demographics of Brockville, the Library, Library Minimum Standards and Best
Practices, and comparable organizations. The sources of this research are cited as
necessary.

(@BizXcel

Pg. 07

“The library is not
a shrine for the
worship of books.
Itis not a temple
where literary
incense must be
burned or where
one's devotion to
the bound book is
expressed in
ritual. A library, to
modify the
famous metaphor
of Socrates,
should be the
delivery room for
the birth of ideas.”

Norman Cousins

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Library and Area Overview

Library History
From the Brockville Public Library (BPL) website:

“The Brockvile Public Liorary (BPL) was formally established in July 1895, an
‘out-growth ofthe collections and services developed by the Brockville
Mechanic's Institute, founded in 1842 with the purpose “to collect books of
Interest to clerks, apprentices and craftsmen; to sponsor lectures on a variety
of subjects; and to conduct experiments in natural philosophy (essential,
physics and chemistry), wrote Canadian Historian lan MacPherson. A library
building grant from Andrew Carnegie in 1902 (one of 111 such grants in
(Ontario) resulted in the opening of the Carnegie Library (later the Brockville
Public Library) in 1904.”

Library Overview
BBPL has 62,235 print items available for public use and circulation — everything from
‘books to CDs and DVDs, from magazines to microfiims — and over 26,000 evites.

‘The library runs close to 500 programs every year for children, teens and adults.
“These programs include weekly clubs, monthly meetings, and occasional
presentations and events and are curated to reach a varity of people. As of
November 2012, Library programs had engaged close to 5,300 people in 2012.

In December 2006, the library management computer system was upgraded to an
Internet-based system where customers can review their accounts, and reserve and
renew items online. In the same year, the Library installed free wireless Internet
‘access for people using their own laptop computers. The library offers computer
Stations with Intemet access for public use (and has since July of 1996). These
‘computers include software and keyboards that make them accessible to persons
with disabilties

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 08 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Library Members
In November 2012, the library had 8.540 active card-holding members. They ive
throughout the city of Brockville, but a significant number also ive outside the city. The
Library does not collec further demographic information about its members beyond
ther place of residence (e.g. it does not collect income or educational information)

Here is a geographic breakdown of current brary members (See Appendix B, Table 1
for more details)

Place of Residence - Library Members

o%

‘= Actve Members
“Bock Center

Brocka Eat

= Brceole West

"= Brcekoile North

“1 Aupusta Township

s Elzabethiown /Kiley Township
= Other Towneips

Unknown

Brockville, ON

Basic Facts: Brockville has a population of 23,354 people and a regional population
(defined as living within 30 minutes) of 99,306. Thirty percent ofthe labour force in the
region work in manufacturing/logistcs and 45.8% workin a professional occupation.

@Biz*cel

Pg. 09

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘Approximately 74% ofthe City’s population has a post-secondary education of some
kind and the average household income is $58,260. The average unemployment rate
is 6%.

‘Age: The median age of the population is 47.9 years old and 86.8% of the ciy is over
18 years ol.

Language: Brockville isa predominately Anglophone city, however there are 615
people whose first language is French, and 1,230 whose first language is a non-otficial
language (~5% ofthe population).

Education: Of the 18,684 people over the age of 20, 1,233 of them have less than a
‘grade 9 education (6.6%). Furthermore, 6,567 have grade 9-13 education but 57%
(3,748) of those with grade 9-13 have not received a graduation certificate. A further
1,963 people in the over-20 group have a trades certificate or diploma, 5,526 have a
college diploma, and 3,394 have some amount of university education (2,501 of those
with a bachelor’s degree or higher). The most common areas of post-secondary study
‘were: commerce, management and business administration, folowed closely by the
applied science technologies and trades.

Citation: All of the above information about the City of Brockville have been taken trom

information provided at: htp:/brockille.com/economicdevelopment under Community
Information

Implications
‘The Library does not collect age, gender, income or education information about its
lionts, which limits the ability o make @ comparison of Library users to City
demographics. The Community Engagement Survey received responses from a
‘sector ofthe City with relatively advanced educational achievement compared to the
City averages. Seventy percent of survey respondents over the age of 20 who were
‘also Library members had either a college, university or post-graduate degree. Fity
‘ight percent of Brockville residents over the age of 20 have one ofthese three
designations.

(@BizXcel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 10 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

“Atruly great
library contains
‘something in it
to offend

Standards and Comparison Research

. Minimum Standards
ve ‘The Gity of Brockvile contributed $587,469 to the BPL budget in 2011. This
Jo Godwin represents an investment of $25.16 per Brockvile resident.

‘According to the Administrators of Rural and Urban Public Libraries of Ontario
{(ARUPLO) report on Guidlines for Rural Utban Public Library Systems 2% Eaton,
pubished in January 2012, the following minimum standards and best practices apply
for BPL. Best practioes are marked with an aster) o distinguish them trom
minimum standards.

Circulation, 8,000 18,683
transactions
Facilities (Space) 1 square foot per 23,854 square fest
capita
Facilities Suser spaces per ‘116.77 user
(Seating) 1,000 per capita @ spaces
30 square feet per
user space’
Facilities 20-40% ofa
(Children’s Area)’ library's assignable
Facilities (Teen ‘Be ofa librarys
Area)" assignable area
‘Staff Work Room* 15% of total library
space

(@BizXcel

Pg. 14

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Category Minimum fora Pro-rated! | Brockville Public
Library ina ‘Adjusted Library
‘Comparable City | Minimum for BPL

(10,000-35,000 (if necessary) 2012
people)

Hours of 35-60 hours per 40 hours per wook

Operation week

Staff: TFTE Branch TRIE Branch

Minimum supervisor ‘Supervisor

Professional

Librarians Minimum 2 FTES + ARTES

(Master's degree 1 FTE por additional

from an accredited 10,000 people

university in

library or

information

science)

“Staff: Other S175 FTES 117 FES
(administration,

‘system functions,

and service

delivery)

‘Staff: Workload 1 wansactions per
staff hour
Collections: Total lems per capita 70.062
ems {minimum 30,000
items)
Collections: Mix of 2/3 Adult: 173

Volumes” children and Young
Agu

Collection: Non- 25% of the
book items" ‘Acquisition budget
‘Spent on non-print

“formats (online

databases and

multimedia)

‘Requisitions™ 50% of materials
printed or published
Within the last seven

(@BizXcel

Pg. 12

PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Category Minimum fora Pro-rated! || Brockville Public
Library ina ‘Adjusted Library
‘Comparable City | Minimum for BPL
(10,000-35,000 (if necessary) 2012
people)
Technology ‘Minimum 3 pubic

access computers +
Branches that serve
more than 2,500
people should have
1 workstation per
additional 1,300
people

Branch location” People travel no
‘more than 30,
‘minutes in a

‘motorized vehicle to

access basic library

‘Staff Training and No|less than 2.5%
Continuing ofthe total staff

Education" budget

(FTE = Full Time Equivalent)

* ingicates Best Practice rather than Minimum Standard

jest practices describe an
‘optimal level of service or manner of providing services that may or may not be
measurable.” ARUPLO Guidelines for RuralUrban Public Library Systems 2” Ealtion

(@BizXcel

Pg. 13

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY

FINAL REPORT

Further Best Practices

‘There are several best practices recommended by ARUPLO. Below we have indicated
here the BPL stands in rlation to fulling these best practices.

Co-operative
‘community a

Reciprocal borrowing agreements with
neighbouring public library systems and
with local post-secondary institutions

Contains strategies that are
‘complementary to those contained in the
‘municipalities’ strategic plan

Yes! ..10 current staf capacity

BPL has no reciprocal agreements at
this time.

@Biz*cel

Pg. 14

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘Comparable Organizations

Perth & District Union Public Library, Perth Ontario
‘The Perth and District Union Public Library, located in Perth, Ontario, serves 18,600,
people as ofthe 2006 census (expected to grow to 26,000 in 2031). According to the
Library's 2012 Strategic Plan, the Perth Library has 19 staff members, 50,000 +
volumes, has open hours 7 days a week, and public computer access. The Library
receives roughly $500,000 a year from municipal and provincial sources combined.
‘The total population ofthe area expands to roughly 28,000 in the summer with the
influx of summer residents.

‘The report states that "There isa thriving community of artists, and many retirees have
‘been drawn to the area in recent years", which indicates that, as with other areas in
(Ontario, the rise of retired and senior populations wil dominate demographic changes
{or the next few years. The Perth Library does not meet minimum recommended
standards for collection, computers, seating, square footage, open hours, or staffing.
‘The Library is also underfunded per capita based on the minimum standards.

Cornwall Public Library
‘Cornwall, Ontario is a city of roughly 46,340 people. The Library is open six days a
‘Week in the spring/summer, and seven days per week in the fallwinter. The Cornwall
Library receives $1,978,171 in funding from the municjpalty and province (combined
total, 2011). There are over 12,000 library card users annually at the Cornwall Library,
with an average of 689 people using the library each open day. They circulated
roughly 250,000 items in 2011

Please see the table on the following page for more comparative information.

(@BizXcel

‘Comparative Data Table - 2010 Data
‘The following chart is taken from the Ontario Ministry of Tourism, Culture and Sport website, and is based on the latest available
‘comparative data (2010) for Ontario Public Library Statistics. Data from libraries in communities with a population between
15,001-30,000 people were examined. Comwall Public Library was not in the same category, but the data has been included for
‘comparative purposes and an example ofa larger community. In addition, for each piece of data, information was included on the
highest, lowest, and average scores.

Uibrary—Aative Branches Weakly Public Local Tota Titles Held’ Annual Total
Cardholders Hours of Computers Operating Operating Per Active
Operation

Perth 6.639 1 48 10 22. ios 303983 6.16

1037200 1B 1.3300
Highestin 22284 6 181 2 7893 1333855022 18.09,
33001 (Pembroke) (Prince (King King (Catina. —kng Top) Sping,_(reckuiley (Coll

30,000 Twp!" Twp)" wood) ‘water Twp)
Category eon

*Comwall appears as a comparator from another grouping of libraries serving populations between 30,001-50,000 people. Its
proximity to Brockvile, and it's mix of rural and urban populations made it an interesting comparison point.

‘Average ot 9.5072

“King Township has four branches. These numbers represent the open hours and computers available across all four locations

‘Source: Statistics, 2010 Ontario Public Library Statistics. Al chars in the (15,001-30,000) and (30,00 1-50,000) categories.
ttp:/wnmu.imte-gov.on.ca/eniibraries/statisties_2010.shiml

Pg. 16

“Whatever the
cost of our
libraries, the price
is cheap
compared to that
of an ignorant
ration."

Walter Cronkite

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Report on Findings from Interviews

Overview

‘As part of he Community Consultations, five targeted in-person interviews were
‘conducted with key community partners. These interviews helped to expand on the
information requested through the Community survey, and to gauge some of the
issues and challenges that the Library's partners and supporters feel may be priorities
in the near future.

‘The partners interviewod were:

+ Mayor David Henderson, City of Brockville Mayor
+ Bob Casselman, City Manager atthe City of Brockville
+ Bonnie Burke, CEO of the Brackvile Museum
+ Suoling Ching, CEO of the Brockville YMCA
+ Sandi LaMorre, Manager of Community Connections and Supports/Children
and Youth Groups at Developmental Services
© As part of the interview with Ms. LaMorre, conversations were also held
with two program participants at Developmental Services.

Interview Themes
‘The four participants each represented dramatically cfferent views of the Library and
its role in the community. However, several themes emerged.

Strengths:
+ Major community asset
© The Library plays a role in the economic development of the City. It
forms a part ofthe tapestry of assets that attract people to live in

Brockville. It also provides valuable resources that strengthen the
‘community and the economy of the community

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 17 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Wollestablished as a resource
© Resources serve a varioty of community groups and members.
© Educational resources are an increasing focal-point ofthe services
available because the Library is a place to access electronic resources.
Ability to evolve
©The Library’s use of new technology to increase Library services is
‘seen as a postive transition.
‘+ Partnerships with community organizations
© Accessibilty
© Programs and services, as well as resources for people with disabilties
are strong.
© The location of the building is a good one, with parking across the
street.
‘© Internet access for people who may not have internet at home, or who
may require support
‘+The new CEO of the Brockville Public Library was seen as a major strength in
the organization, bringing fresh energy and experience, as well as an interest
in partnering in the community. All interview participants noted this strength
‘+ History ~ the Camegie building, and the upgrades tothe space, are seen as a
valuable asset.

‘+ Art gallory in the Library
= Statt

© The staff are helpful and nice
‘+ Computer programs for kids are great

Weaknesses:
‘+ Public relations: people don't know what's avaliable and what the role and
relevance of the Library is anymore
‘+ The space is felt 1 be too expensive to rent for some community organizations
‘+ Gear signage of books for people with disabilties would improve accessibility

(@BizXcel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 18 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘Oppertuniti
‘+ Increase investment in promotions and marketing,
© Taking an aggressing approach to connecting to big groups and making
the Library more ofa relevant presence in the community
‘+ The library is a major asset for seniors, providing services that help them stay
connected in a digital world
© Outreach to seniors facilities and mobile services.
‘+ Becoming more “commercialized in the image of the bookstore-coftee shop
model is seen as an attractive direction forthe library.
‘+ The Library has the opportunity o share services with the City.
© There has been some reluctance to integrate shared services. This
‘could be a cost-saving move that provides poltical allegiance, while
maintaining arms-length operations. This may also be seen as a threat
by some, however, ifthe terms ofthe partnership are nat clea.
‘+ The relationship between the Library and the City is improving
© Providing positive and ongoing feedback to the City about what's
happening atthe Library is valuable and appreciated.
‘©The Gity is wiling to do joint lobbying atthe provincial level to increase
the grant amount from provincial sources.
‘+ The Cultural Sector is taking a more vocal approach to advertising their role as
‘an economic development resource inthe City
© Tourism partnerships with the Library may be a valuable strategy, as
oll as the Library playing a vocal advocacy role in shaping the future
ofthe City. Events aimed at tourists wil bring afresh spin and
increased relevance to the role ofthe Library in the City
‘+ New technology opens the local collection up to the world, and vice versa,
‘+ Partnerships with Developmental Services clients who may be interested in
volunteering at the Library, leaming more about how to use the library, or
helping with fundraisers (e.g. craft sales, bake sales, otc)

Threats:
‘+ Staying in people's minds as a core part of the community.

(@BizXcel

Pg. 19

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘The perception that the Library ether will - or should — get rd ofall the books.
‘Two competing perspectives.
‘The 401 is a physical and psychological barrier for people who lve up town.
‘Changing demographics: will the Library serve the new demographics of the
town?
Dominant perceptions of the anachronistic nature of libraries
‘© The Library isin the midle of a PR battle to prove that it has relevance
in a digital worl, especially among those members of the public who
‘may not have seen a reason to access it in the past.
© This perception exists at the City level as well. The City does not
receive either good or bad feedback about the Library. Only hears trom
them at budget time.
‘The Library is nota priority asset in the City on its own
‘© The Library is grouped as a “cultural asset" in Brockville and falls under
the priorty of investing in amenities tobe top class”, but isnot on its
‘own a priory.
© While there isnt currently a champion at the City level pushing for
increased investment, there is also the sense that there does not need
to.be one. There is no reason to increase investment in the Library but
also no reason to decrease investment at this time.

Other Feedback:

Logisation prevents the Library from charging for certain services. I there was
an interest in advocating for changing the legislation, there are City
representatives who would be interested in increasing the revenue streams
availabe to the Library

‘Questions arose around a postbricks-and-mortar role for the Library. Could
the library move entirely online or reinvent itselt as a mobile service?

Further advocacy and persuasion would be required atthe City level it there
\was interest in offering free cards for out-of-town members. However,
partnerships with those municipalties might help to smooth over these

(@BizXcel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 20 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Report on Findings from Community
Engagement Survey

Introduction
‘The Brockville Public Library Community Engagement Survey received 1324 valid
responses, and 30 incomplete responses that were excluded from the results. A total
‘of 806 people (60.9% of valid responses) were members atthe Brockville Library. The
remaining 518 (39.1%) were either: not Library members (314 people’23.7% of
responses); were members at a diferent library (142 people!10.7% of responses); or
‘were not sure whether they had a library card or not (28 people'.7% of responses}.
This represents a strong blend of responses from members and non-members. Of
those who indicated they held a library card from another library, the most frequent
‘When I got my response was Prescott (20 respondents).
library card, that
was when my life
began.” LibrancaraMember

Respondents with Library Cards

oe
Rite Mae Brown ae

Members at Other Libre
+ 142 respondents indicated they had a library card at albrary other than BPL
+124 respondents identitied the library where they held their card,

+ Of these 124 people, 20 had cards at the Prescott library, 14 at Augusta, 8 at
Leeds and the Thousand Islands, and 7 at Ottawa Public Library.

+ 13 people provided comments such as *My daughter has a card,“ ost,
haven't used itn years", “Ido, but | don't know where itis" "Have had one in
the past’, "Yes, but | bolove ithas expired’

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 21 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Members at Other Libraries

(Of the respondents who indicated they had a membership at a diferent Ibrary, 98
‘people indicated that they visited the Brockville Library more than once per
month.' Twenty-eight of these people also said they were also Brockville Library
members.

‘The question was phrased How often do you physcaly vst the Brockulle Library’ reducing
the chances that people interceted the question as being about how otten they vist thir own
Rbvary. Twenty-eight ofthe people who responded thal they had brary cards at another brary
‘also eaid they had Brockvale Library memberships

@Biz*cel

Pg. 22

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Demographics

Gender
(Of 1324 respondents, 66.6% (882) were female, and 92.3% (428) were male. One
respondent identified as Gender Queer.*

Male
Female
"Gender Queer

Age
A total of 1816 respondents provided their age. The average age of respondents was
40, with a standard deviation of 20.

A significant number of people in all age ranges were polled using this survey:

* Thiteen respondents used the sel identilication space to indicate either "malo" or Yomale
cor that there were both male and female persons living inthe houses, or faled to provide a|
‘ender.

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 23 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘+ 26% of respondents were under age 25 (344 people), representing students
‘and young workers. 140 of these were Brockville Library members (41% of,
respondents under the age ot 25);

‘+ 59% of respondents were between the ages of 25:64 (779 people),
representing the active workforce, 528 of these were Brockvile Library
members (68% of respondents between the ages of 25:64),

‘+ 12% of respondents were over the age of 85 (168 people), representing
‘seniors and retirees. 117 of these were Brockville Library members (72% of
respondents aver age 65)

‘See Appendix B, Table 2 for more detailed breakdown of respondent ages.

400
380
200
250
200
150
400

Ey

06 742 1947 18:24 25-34 25-49 50-64 65-79 a0

Municipality
‘A total of 1816 people indicated where they pay taxes. 821 of these people are based
in Brockville (62.4%). The second most frequent response was Elizabethtown-Kitley,
with 120 people (9.196), followed by Augusta with 75 people (5.6%), Prescott with 48,

@Biz*cel

Pg. 24

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

people (2.6%), Leeds and the Thousand Islands with 38 (2.9%), Front of Yonge with
37 (2.8%), Edwardsburgh/Carcinal with 28 (2.194) and Athens with 25 (1.9%). 85
respondents incicated either “Other” of “N/A” All other municipalities (Ottawa, Rideau
Lakes, Stormont, Dundas & Glengarry, North Grenville, Gananoque, Lanark,
Frontenac, and Merickville-Wotford) all had 8 respondents or less each.

Respondents’ Municipalities
200
200
700
00
500
#00
200
200
a.

* NVA responses were no limited to certain age group. They spanned from age 8-80 with no
‘age range more dominant than others. 49 ol the NIA respondents were Lisrary Members, while
38 ware not

(@BizXcel

Pg. 25

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Family Ages
Respondents with family memberships at the Brockville Library were asked how many
family members they had within each age group. They were asked to include
themselves in the counts.

+ 202 respondents had children under the age of 6 in their family

+ 196 respondents had children between 7-12 in ther family

+ 209 respondents had chikdren between 13-17 in their family.

‘+ 98 respondents had at least one person between the age of 18-24 in their
family

This question was not always understood by respondents, and each of these groups
included both Library member and non-member respondents. This information is
useful, however, because we know that there were a sigificant number of
respondents tothe survey with children or teenagers in their families.

Household Income
The following table describes the number of respondents who fell within each income
bracket, and how many of those people were Library members.

‘See Appendix B, Table 3 for detaled breakdown,

$25,000-$54,999,
| preter not to respond
I dont know

$55,000-$84,999,

‘Library Members (#)
'$85,000-5119.999 ‘=A Respondents (#)
Under $25,000

More than $120,000

‘without Income

0 100 200 300 400 500

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE

Pg. 26 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

“The majority of respondents who indicated "I don't know" on their income were age 19.
‘or under (200 respondents). This survey heard from a good distribution of respondents

Household Income

Householdincome
More than 6120,000,
$55,000- $84,990,
$85,000- $119,909
[peter notte respond
$25,000-854.008,

[Under $25,000
‘wnnout income

FF taontinow

a9
198
188
70
2s
cre]

12
210

@Biz*cel

Pg. 27

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Education
‘The following table describes the number of respondents and library members who
have completed each ofthe following educational milestones.

For more details, see Appendix B, Table 4

Postgraduate Degree

University Undergraduate
Degree

College Diploma
Some Calle sLiorary Members ()

[All Respondents (#)

or University
High Schoo! (Grade 12/13)
Elementary Schoo! (Grade 8)

Grade 7 oF Under

0 100 200 300 400 500 600

Education Level

ducationLovel
University Undergraduate Degree 248
Postgraduate Degree 158
Ccllege Diploma pr]
High School (rade 1203) 183
‘Some College or University 189
Grade 7 orunder 2
Elementaryschool(Grages) 237

(Of the 806 Library members who responded to the survey, 60.5% had completed a
College, University or Postgraduate Degree (488 people), while 28% (224 people) had
‘a high school diploma or some college o university

@Biz*cel

Pg. 28

‘She sounds like
someone who
spends a lot of
time in libraries,
which are the best
sorts of people.”

Catherynne M.
Valente

(The Girl Who
Circumnavigated
Fairyland in a
Ship of Her Own
Making)

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Library Use

In-Person Visits

Survey respondents were asked how often they visited the brary in person. 1268
responses were provided. Most people indicated that they visited the library less than
{three times per month, on average. ‘ 13.4% (170 people) visited the brary
Regularly’, which was defined as once per week. A small group of 116 respondents
indicated that they visited the library more than once per week by indicating either
Frequently” or ‘Dally” (9% of responses). 21.5% of respondents indicated that they
"Never" visited the library in person,

In-Person Visits

ty ora tes pret 8
Fave ore than one per west) or
rman pprosmaty) 246

sipermortsopeamasiy 308

porns 70

91% of respondents who answered "Never" were nor-library members.

Members Only: With the exception of those who indicated "Never", the other response
ratios stayed roughly the same when contralled for membership (see Figure below).
‘The majority indicated either “Once in a while” or °Not very often’ (65% of card
holders).

*709 people (56% of responses) chose either ‘Not very often” or “Once in a while

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 29 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

LnvPerson Visits for Members

berms pre "
Fave ore than one per west) st
Netvrotin wes nan orce per mon, aerosmaioy) 208
Deeein sun Ie3bmes per marth sprosimamiy 304
Regu (nce er week spose iss

Online Visits

Respondents were more likely o say that they “Never” visited the library via the
website (525 of 1266 responses or 41.5% of responses). OF those who did use it, they
also were less likely o access the library online frequently. 575 responses indicated
that they visited the library online either “Not very often” or “Once in a while” (45.4%).
‘Only 166 respondents said that they visited the library online either "Regularly",
Frequently” or ‘Dally” (13.1%).

Online Visits
hi rae npr wa) a
neinannia somes permet serosa) et
Ratverten fez manance errant apeomraieh) 261
Fey ene parwask seperate ia

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 30 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Members Only: Members were less likely to have said that they “Never” visited the
library online (See Figure below)

Online Visits for Members

Daly koran tne pero) in
Dnceimaynie Somes erent, poi) 285
Ratverten es manance perro apeommaiey) 205
Fey ene parwask seperate cl

@Biz*cel

Pg. 31

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Preferred Days to Visit the Library
Respondents were asked to indicate which days they most preferred to access the
Library. They were able to choose as many options as they liked. The results are
presented in the following table.

‘The most popular days wore Saturday and Sunday. Tuesday, Wednesday and
‘Thursday were the next most popular choices, athough all weekdays were chosen by
between 30-39% of respondents

‘See Appendix B, Table 5 for more details.

Preferred Days
200
700
00
00
400
200
200
400

:
ss eS eS Ss of
a a a ar

@Biz*cel

Pg. 32

BROCKVILLE

PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Preferred Time of Day

Respondents were asked whether they preferred tolwere most likely to use the library

in the morning, afternoon or evening. Respondents were allowed to indicate one, wo
‘or all three responses.

‘See Appendix B, Table 6 for more details.

Preferred Time of Day

Morning ‘Alternoon Evening

@Biz*cel

Pg. 33

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Response to Current Hours
Respondents were asked whether the current open hours ofthe Library met their
needs or not. Responses indicated that the majority of people felt thatthe current
hours were adequate (53%) or great (37%). Less than 10% felt that the current hours
were not adequate.

Comments
Comments were tallied according to what changes they suggested. The majority of
‘comments asked for longer andlor later hours on Monday or later hours every day.
Friday evenings and earlier opening hours were also frequent requests.

‘One commenter asked for 24 hour access, 27 said either “I don't know" or “The hours
are fine’. Three respondents asked for the hours to be the same every day.

The graph on the following page ilustrates the most common responses.

For a detalod breakdown, please see Appendix B, Table 7.

(@BizXcel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 34 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Count of Comments Re: Preferred Times

(Open on hotidays
(Open on Sundays inthe summer
‘Open eatior Sunday

(Open longeiiater Sunday
(Open eater Saturday

(Open langerater Saturday
(Open longertater Friday
Closed on Mondays

‘Open longertiater Mondays
‘Open earir everyday

Here are some of the other comments received:

‘+ "Smaller towns than Brockville can afford ther libraries to be open all day
Mondays’

‘+ Find it strange that i's open only for such a short time on Monday. Does not
‘seem worthwhile, It would be easier to remember that it's closed the entire day
than to remember the hours that itis open.”

‘+ “Lwould close on Sunday and use those 4 hours from Sunday, and stay open
longer on Monday.”

‘+ "We've just begun being a ‘regular’ as our daughter is now 3. Having the
‘opportunity to go at 9 am on Saturdays would be great. Activities in the
morning would be nice as well, so not having to wait until the middle ofthe
afternoon for them.”

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 35 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

+ “Looked up the hours online. Worse than a bank. How would | go in the
‘evening when you close at § most days and | work till S or later most days?”
+ Extended hours for teenagers.

The Library's Hours are currently as follows:
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday*
{OKM-IPM —10AM-SPM — LORM-2PM—10RM-PMLORM-SPH LORM-SPM_—3PM.SPHL

* closed Sundays between Canada Day and Labour Day

@Biz*cel

Pg. 36

“Libraries really
are wonderful
They're better
than bookshops,
even. | mean,
bookshops make
a profit on selling
‘you books, but
braries just sit
there lending you
books quietly out
of the goodness
of their hearts.

Jo Walton

(Among Others)

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Products and Services
Participants were asked: ‘Which products and services do you or your family use at
the Library currently, or would you be interested in using? Please check all that you

‘The following graph (next page) ilustrates the thiny most popular products and
services offered by the Library currently.

Please refer to Appendix B, Table 8 for a complete breakdown of responses to this
question.

(Over 70 percent ofall survey respondents (932 people) indicated that they enjoyed, or
‘were interested in, borrowing adult books from the Library. The second most popular
response was 45 percent of respondents (594 people) who chose “adult
Entertainment DVDs" and the third most popular response with only 30 percent of
respondents (392 people) was ‘teen books". The option to check "None" was also
available, and was selected by 104 respondents (8 percent of respondents)

“The next two most popular responses wre services: holding/tenewing books online
(28% of respondents) and interlibrary loans (27% of respondents). Using Library
computers and magazines were also popular wth 26% of respondents each, followed
by children’s books with 23.5% of respondents.

‘This data shows that the core business ofthe Library still remains with physical items
that people enjoy borrowing, especially books and DVDs, as well as the services that
‘make borrowing these books more convenient. All thee categories of book borrowing
appeared in the top eight most popular products and services available at the Library

Services such as online databases and internet taining also appeared in the top 15
‘most popular services, showing an interest inthe Library as a place to increase
‘access to digital information as well

(@BizXcel

Pg. 37

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Most Popular Products and Services
‘The following graph includes the 30 most popular products and services.

‘Audiobooks (Teen)
Nonfiction DVD (Chileren)
Seating AreasiReading Chairs
NonFiction DVD (Teen)
‘Children's Computers
Laminating

Meeting Rooms
Magazines (Teen)
eReader

‘Audiobooks

‘Study Rooms

(CDs (Adit)

Cortes

Printing

Entertainment DVD (Chileten)
Photocopying

‘Audiobooks (Adult)
Internet Training

Online Databases
Entertainment OVD (Teen)
NonFiction DVD (Adu)
Neverending Book Sale
Books (Chiron)
Magazines (Adult)
Computers

Interibrary Loans

Online HolsFenew

Books (Teen)
Entertainment OVD (Adit
Books (Adult)

0 = 200» 400S goo. S=1000


Pg. 38 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘The Library also provided the opportunity to give suggestions of products and services
that respondents used and that were not mentioned,

‘The following is alist of responses received inthis category:

— a wa
spo

So herein :

spoken sippot

toot Rear —

‘Surc nrmatonon ee ae

tncomap eying —
—

‘Local history (History - European and Pre-Contact Fist Nations) 1

‘ntine language program 1

@Biz*cel

Pg. 39

“Ateenager
deserves a library
that recognizes
realty. He needs
an information
source and study
area that does not
impose arbitrary,
crippling rules on
him. His library
should recognize
that dignity and
silence are not
prior requisites to
learning [..] He
would lke, needs,
and deserves for
other people to
stop trying to
protect him and
allow him the right
to choose
information for
himself [..] Most
ofall the teenager
‘needs people in
libraries to
recognize and
accept him as a
respectable
human being.”

Anne Osbom

(Revolting
Librarians)

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Programs and Events

Participants were asked: "Which programs and events are you or your family attending
or interested in attending? Check all that apply.” As above, participants were able to
‘solect "None" or “Other” and provide details in the comments. "Other" comments
appear on the next page. 564 people selected “None”

‘The following graphs display the most popular responses in order.

300

250

200

450

100

(@BizXcel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 40 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘There were 67 comments provided in the “Other” category under Programs and
Events. They have been summarized as follows:

‘Small Business/Home Based Business
Bookmobile

Guided Meitation

Globetrtiers

curing

‘Annual Book Sale

Special Events

Reading Buddy Programs

Genealogy

At Showe/Dieplays

Silver Bich and Blue Spruce

PFLAG

Climate Action Group/Transition Brockville
‘Writing Workshops (fr adults)

‘Author Readings/Meet the Author
‘Summer Programs (all ages)

‘Game Nights or Cubs/Card Games
General Interest Lectures and

Childrens Programs

("rr

Examples:
Examples given for children's programs included: March break programming, Books
with Babies, a children’s book club, special events, toddler-actvies on Saturdays,
‘summer programs for kids, and Language Express toddler talk

Examples for game nights included euchre, hearts, canasta, board games, and
scrabble,

@Biz*cel

Pg. 41

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Suggested guest speakersiworkshops included topics such as: Islam, historical
presentations, children’s mental health, history, music, teaching, donut making,
technical-skils workshops, news and research, painting, rveriscuba/boating related
topics, and archaeology.

Ready buddy programs included suggestions for reading with volunteers and their
pets. Other suggestions included: special events (@.g. March 17, Fancy Nancy Tea

Parties or themed eventsicharacter book parties), tapes on languages, and Sport
Time Read.

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 42 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Access

‘Arrival Method
Survey respondents were asked how they would most likely get to the Library (their
‘most frequent method of transportation). Respondents were able to select more than
‘one option. By far, the mast frequent response was “Drive” with 973 people indicating
that they would dive to the library (73.5% of respondents). The next most frequent
response was ‘Walk” (37.5% of respondents). "Other" methads included: electric
‘scooter, vehicle, KOBO, and parents (x2)

‘See Appendix B, Table 9 for more details.

Arrival Method

1200
4000 |

200

00

400 |

200

Walk "Bike Bus Drive Drop-OH" Online Other

@Biz*cel

Pg. 43

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Ability to Access Downtown Location
Respondents were asked whether they felt they were able to access the Library's
{downtown location. Of the 1221 responses received, 1089 (89%) said "Yes", 40 (3%)
‘sald "No", and 82 (8%) said “I don't know

Able to Access Downtown Location

‘AccessDovntownLocation

‘Yes 1089
No 40
Hdontknow 92

Comments:
‘The majority of the 67 comments referred to challenges with finding tree) parking in
‘lose proximity tothe Library. Five comments referred positively to parking (disabled
parking accessible, close to the door, free parking on the weekend, etc): "If cant
park near is a pleasant walk from where | park.” There were 28 negative comments
with regards to parking, most of which fet that parking was not clase enough to the
library, was hard to find, andlor was too expensive/nat free. One comment mentioned
the challenge withthe curb not being cut out in the disabled spot

(Other comments included: the Library is a convenient walking andlor biking distance,
the weather is a deterrent (not as likely o go inthe winter), and needing to wait for a
rive from parents. A few people expressed that they found it ficult to access the
Library without a car. One respondent indicated an interest in a tree shuttle for

@Biz*cel

Pg. 44

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Sufficient Accessible Features
‘The survey asked whether people felt thatthe library offered enough accessible
services and facility features for people with disables. The majority ~ 65% (795
people) - indicated “I don't know’. 380 people (31%) felt that "Yes" the Library
provided sufficient accessibility services and features. 46 people (<4%6) felt that “No”,
the Library wasn't doing enough,

Enough Accessible Features

EnoughaccessibieFeatures

‘Yes 0
No 48
Tdontknow 705

Comments:
‘The comments on sufficiency of accessible features revealed a few areas where the
Library could improve, although several comments mentioned that the Library was
‘considered a leader in this area. “Yes it does. As mentioned before, the Library is a
leader inthis community when it comes to providing accommodation to everyone.
Great innovative ideas and they meet all ofthe standards and even exceed them.

‘The suggested improvements included:

‘+ Improving the compliance ofthe circulation desk and more of the general
furnishings to make them more accessible to people in wheelchairs.

‘© Consider rearranging sections ofthe library to accommodate scooters and
‘electronic wheelchairs between the stacks.

‘+ Ensure the library website is fully accessible,

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 45 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘Build a rampicut out the curb in the disabled parking spot.
+ Consider increasing programs for people who are visually impaired

+ Increase the number of disabled parking spaces.

+ Purchase more chairs without handles and low tables.

+ Consider rearranging some books to be more accessible (easier to reach),

Require Accessible Parking
Respondents were asked whether they required accessible parking. There were 1220
responses, of which 81 respondents (61 of whom are Library members) indicated
“Yes!

Requiring Accessible Parking

NoestccesstleParking

‘Yes 81
No 1139

@Biz*cel

Pg. 46

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

More Service Points

(One of the questions asked on the survey was: ‘Do you think that the Library needs
‘other service points such as kiosks, book drops, or other branches?” The Library was
‘curious to hear whether there would be a demand for Library services at other
locations in the city and whether location was a significant barter.

(Of the 784 current Library card holders who responded to the question, 236 (20%) felt
that there should be other service points, while 356 (45%) felt that there should not
‘There were 192 people (24%) who responded "I don’ know’. The difference between
responses allows for a hypothesis regarding why some respondents do not currently
have Library cards (Le. current Library card holders were less likely to see a need for
more service points)

‘The responses were as follows (see chart on next page for Members’ responses):

More Service Points

omerservcePoins

Yes am
No ra)
Tdontknow 385,

For more detaiis, see Appendix B, Table 10.

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 47 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

More Service Points, Members Only

omerservcePoins

Yes 26
No 356
Tdontknow 192

Comments:
‘There were 158 comments submitted under this question. The idea of a book drop
was very popular among commenters. About a thd of the people in favour of a book
‘drop specified that they would be interested in having one in the north end (around 65
people were in favour of a book drop).

‘Around 50 comments centered on increasing services inthe north end. Ten
‘commenters said they liked the idea of another branch in the north end. Kiosks and
‘additional branches were both equally popular. The most common suggestion for a
Kiosk, book drop or branch in the north end was the 1000 Islands Mall.

Respondents who objected to expanding sorvices most often said that the cost would
not be worth it, and/or that the city was not big enough to need or to sustain the
‘growth. A few comments mentioned strengthening partnerships and interlibrary loan
programs to expand access through that route. There were also a number of
‘comments about mobile book services, especially for senior.

Here isa selection of comments from respondents:
“it money was no object :) Some extra strategically placed book drops could be helpful

(.e.:in the north end of town). Also, a kiosk or two would be nice -| think it could
‘generate more interest and use of our present library services.

@Biz*cel

Pg. 48

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

“Iwould defintely use a branch that was more convenient. I hate to admit it, but 1
stopped going tothe library because | didn't have time to drive down town and | found
parking dificult”

“Like the idea of book drops and even other branches. A library space in the north

‘end would be great!! Maybe in the conference ream in the mall that's tree for not for
profits"

“Cooperation with existing community libraries to share resources and enhancing
Interlibrary loan system might realize economies of scale and new members”

“I would love to see something up inthe novth end (easier to access for the aged and
families with young children)

“The drop box on George Street isnot ideal for drops offs at night (darker and more
secluded). | try to return books during the daylight or when I can go inside.

“A drop box would be a great idea in the north part of town somewhere....or even a
bookmabile, although | know how expensive they are, to make the library available to

all residents. If not for accessibily of tree books’ from a bookmobile in my home city 1
would not have the exposure to books or have the love of books | now have.

“Other branches would be lovely but I don't know that it would be financially feasible
and I wouldn't want to do anything that might jegparolze the current library’
“The library should be seen as a destination point, a pleasant place to goto, not

‘merely as a convenience. It should not be seen as the equivalent ofa fastfood ave:
through window.

(@BizXcel

Pg. 49

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Publicity
Respondents were asked where they heard about Library programs and events. They

‘wore able to check as many responses as they liked.

‘The most common responses were the “Library Website” (31.9%), "Word of Mouth’
(27.8%), "Newspapers" (22.124), and “Posters” (20.8%). 254 respondents (19.2%)
‘said that they “never hear or see advertising for Library programs and events

For more detais, see Appendix B, Table 11.

Media and Marketing Reach

PEP EP PLS BEA
LOL DP OLE

Comments
Respondents provided comments under “Other” ways that they heard about activities
at the Library.

‘The most frequent responses were: “School Teachers at school’ (13 responses),
postersinoticesiiors atthe Library (12 responses), family and frends (11 responses),
at the Library (4 responses), the Early Years Centre (2 responses), and TV Cogeco (3.
responses).

@Biz*cel

Pg. 50

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘Other comments mentioned publications including Backpack Magazine, the EMC, the
Brockville Visitor Guide and the Recorder and Times. Two comments specifically

mentioned staff as sources of information (Brandy, and Amanda visiting the YMCA).

(Online or through partners were also media for information mentioned in the

‘comments: the Chamber of Commerce, the Community Calendar on Cogeco TV, the
UGDSB VLG, the YMCA, theweesource.com and PFLAG.

The remaining comments were as follows:

‘Doesnt apply as live 2.5 hours away

‘Email at work

1 goto the library and ask.

eft a message about starting programs a few years ago. Shorly after the
library offered new programs including for children

‘Only when physically visiting the brary

Phil Julian

‘Radio announcements would be good. | hear of the odd group meeting there,
but not sure tis the group or the library promoting it. Now that ma member
again, Im sure | will hear or see more.

“There is hardly any mention of BPL in the F& T, EMC | miss the regular
column in the R.& Tr column

@Biz*cel

Pg. 51

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Facilities
Survey participants wore asked to rank a series of features and spaces at the Library

(on a scale from 1-5 with § representing Excellent and 1 representing Very Poor.

For all of these rankings, there were a significant number of people each time who
selected “I don't now’. This may be either because the respondent is nota library
member, of because they have never used the library

Inthe graphs below, the “I don't know’ column is lft in the frst raph under each
heading to ilustrate the level of familiarity with each of the lbrary's features, and then
removed from the second graph to show the ranking scores more clearly

(Graphs star on following page).

(@BizXcel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 52 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘Accessible Furnishings

Ranking: Accessible Furnishing

Spaces_AccessibleFumnishinas
dont now m3

1 Fa

3

100

164

128

Ranking: Accessible Furnishing (1-5 Only)

Spacos_AccossibleFurnishings

1 2
3
100
164
18

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 53 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘Computer Stations

Ranking: Computer Stations

Spaces_ComputerSations
dontinow 398

1 32

72

20

as

155

Ranking: Computer Stations (1-5 Only)

Spacos_computersations

1 2
2

20

aus

155

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 54 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Library Layout

Ranking: Library Layout

Spaces _Livrant aout

aontinow 238
1 36

55

13

aa

a4

Ranking: Library Layout (1-5 Only)

Spaces_Livrantayout
38

55

1

at

a4

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 55 7” PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Décor

Ranking: Decor

Saves Decor
aontknaw 264

2 100
Fy 25
1 364
5 cr]
Ranking: Decor (1-5 Only)
Spaces_Detor
+ 4
2 100
2 Rs
1 ie
5 ie

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 56 PUBLIC LIBRARY

Meeting Rooms

Ranking: Meeting Rooms

‘Spacos_MeotingRooms

dont know 630
18
26
459
245
150

Ranking: Meeting Rooms (1-5 Only)

‘Spacos._MeotingRooms
1 18

28

15
Pr
460

FINAL REPORT

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 57 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘Quiet Study Spaces

Ranking: Quiet Study Spaces

‘Seaces_quetsuey

aontinow 463
1 30

52

180

230

24

Ranking: Quiet Study Spaces (1-5 Only)

‘Spaces_duetsuay
20

52

10

200

Et

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 58 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Reading Chairs

Ranking: Reading Chairs
Spaces_Readingchals
\eontiow 347

ua

2
Fi at
5 28

Ranking: Reading Chairs (1-5 Only)

Seca Readhacnatn

Fa
2 ee
a a4
4 Eve
5 25

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 59 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Technology Services

Ranking: Technology Services

Spaces TochnologySenices
dont know 549

30

rs

181

205

crt)

Ranking: Technology Services (1-5 Only)

Spacos_TochnologySenices

1 30
2 6
3 181
4 25
5 rr)

@Biz*cel

Pg. 60

The old man was
peering intently at
the shelves. 111
have to adnit that
he's a very
‘competent
scholar.”

‘Isn't he just @
librarian?’ Garion
asked, ‘somebody
who looks after
books?"

That's where all
the rest of
scholarship start,
Garion. All the
books in the world
won't help you if
they're just piled
up ina heap."

David Eddings

(King of the
‘Murgos)

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Customer Services

Respondents were asked to rank their customer service experience and how they fet
about the services provided by the library staff. Staff were ranked on availabilty
friendliness, and knowledge. Rankings for all three categories were vary high:
friendliness had the highest score.

Staff Availability Rating

CcustomerService_statialabie

dont know 23
54
0
o5
281
528

Staff Friendliness Rating

Ccustomerserice_StatFrienaty

dont know aT
2
Fy
a5
240
598

@Biz*cel

Pg. 61

BROCKVILLE

PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Staff Knowledge Rating

CustomerSenice_Statknowiedgable

‘dont know 259
58
Fa
a5
27
59

Members Only: When controlled to show only library membership, al three results
‘continue to show very high quality service rankings.

Staff Availability Rating - Members Only

CustomerSenice_statavalable

dont know 2
2

2

5a

195

44

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 62 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Staff Friendliness Rating - Members Only

Customersenice_statFrienaty
dont know 20
1 53
2 a
3 5
4 185
5 431

Staff Knowledge Rating - Members Only

CustomerSenice_Statknowtedyable

Iaont know a
1 28

i

52

24

O 8

@Biz*cel

Pg. 63

“in the nonstop
tsunami of global
information,
librarians provide
us with floaties
and teach us to

Linton Weeks

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Free Cards for Non-Residents

Brockville has a significant number of incoming commuters that come into the City
{rom the outlying rural areas and smaller towns either for work or school, or to access
services. Currently, only residents of Brockville who pay taxes to the City are eligible
{ora free Library card. The Library has been investigating the possibilty of offering
{ree Library cards to non-residents of Brockville if they either work or attend school in
the City. There are many arguments both for and against ths strategy.

‘A question was included on the survey and was worded as follows:

“Currently free Library cards are availabe to all Brockville residents. If you live
outside of Brockville, there is an annual fee to obtain a lary card at BPL
‘Would you supportagree with a program that provided free Library cards to
people who lve outside Brockville but who work andior attend school within
Brockville?”

‘A total of 1221 responses were received. OF these, 68.2% (833 people) supported free
cards for non-residents, while 14.3% (174 people) opposed the program. The other
17.5% (214 people) solected “I don't know’

Free Cards for Non-Residents

CardsamonBrockatie

Yes fl
No m4
Taomanow 214

@Biz*cel

Pg. 64

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘When controlled for current Brockville Library members only, there were 784
responses, 523 (66.7%) of whom supported free cards for non-residents and 133
(179%) of whom opposed them (128 or 16.3% indicated they didnt know).

Free Cards for Non-Residents (Members Only)

CCardsononsrockile

Yes 23
No 13
Tdonthnow 428

Comments:
‘There were 272 comments received in response to this question. Comments were
‘summarized thematically. The most common reason that people gave for supporting
{ree cards was because it people worked andior went to schoo! in Brockville then they
‘were contributing to the city - economically, socially, etc. - and they were part ofthe
‘community (more than 80 comments centered on this theme). The second most
‘frequent argument for why libraries should be free for people living out of town was
that people felt that libraries in general should be free and accessible (42 people made
‘a comment ofthis nature). The most frequently cited reason for opposing free library
cards for anyone who was not a Brockville resident was the fact that Brockville tax
payers subsidize the cost of the Library. Approximately 50 comments gave taxes as
the reason for their objection to the proposal

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 65 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

(Other common responses were:

‘+ Yes, but only for Brockville students (not for workers)
‘+ Maybe, but only i it doesn't cost more for Brockville tax payers
‘+ Maybe, but only if there isa reciprocal agreement with other local partner
‘municipalities andlor financial contribution trom those municipalities
‘+ Yes, but only for those with low income andior maybe the fee could be reduced
In addition, a handful of people said that all users ~ even Brockville residents ~ should

have to pay. Other questions concerned the cost, retirees, people returning their
‘books on ime, and whether services in neighbouring areas were comparable.

Here isa selection of comments:
“Honestly | 100! all libraries should be accessible by everyone. A litle knowledge is
‘good for anyone.

“Otten there are no alternatives for these people and some cannot afford even a small

fee. As they support the town by working or attending schools, they should have
‘access to the library.

“The Library is supported by Brockville property taxes. People who don’ lve in
Brockville don’ contribute through their property taxes, so they should pay a fee, or
their muniejpaity should make a contribution.

“A library is a repository of knowledge meant to be shared withthe community. While |
understand thatthe library needs money, | dont believe that people should be
‘charged to use it just because their house isin a different area. A community is more
than just the area where you sleep, it needs to be where you LIVE.

“Brockville receives numerous sources of revenues from businesses and schools in
Brockvill with which to pay for the small incremental costs associated with expanding

(@BizXcel

Pg. 66

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

the service to this sector. It also makes Brockvile that much more attractive a place
for people to do business’study, enhancing Brockvlle’s tax base over a longer time
tame.

“Not sure how to answer this; if there are outside the area small ibrares that are
beings supported by tax dollars, then | think those libraries should be supported and

community members should be encouraged to use them. Students from out of town
should have some sort of articulated access through their schools.

"Breaking down barriers is alvays essential to improving access and image.

“People identity with the community where they work and attend school. The more
people who access the ltary the more we can justily its existence. A community with
a vibrant library is another attraction for people to relocate tothe region.

“Its costly to una brary and every dollar counts; | have used the Smiths Falls library
{rom time to time and although Ive in Lanark Co. | still ad to pay to borrow books.
Only fair.

“Brockville ratepayers pay for the Brockville Library. It is unrealistic for people who live
outside the city often to avoid higher city taxes to expect all the amenities that ving in
the city and paying city axes entitles you to. User fees are necessary and should
remain in place.

“Tough question. Ifthe objective isto generate library usage then yes, the cards
should be free. However, i the fee is to generate revenue, then the fact that someone
attends school or works in the city, and does not pay taxes, then it does not seem fair
to other taxpayers.

(@BizXcel

Pg. 67

“Allibrary in the
middle of a
community is @
cross between an
emergency exit, a
Mie raft and a
festival. They are
cathedrals of the
‘minds; hospitals of
the soul; theme
parks of the
imagination.”

Caitlin Moran

(Moranthology)

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Increased Library Funding
Respondents were polled on whether or not they supported increased city funding for
the Brockville Public Library. The majority (61.8%) sai that "Yes", they supported
increased funding. A small minority (7%) said "No". The remainder of people indicated
“don't know’

‘Support Increase of City Funding

InereasecinFunding

Yes a2
Ne fa
Idontinow 372

Comments:
‘The 116 comments received in this category shed some light on people's responses.
They have been summarized thematically as follows (in order of frequency of
response}:
‘Yes, | support increased City funding for the Library.

1. .because the library isa vital resource, and a worthwhile investment. It should

'be wellunded. (~40 comments)
2. ...as long as my taxes do not go up'as long as money comes from existing

‘sources. (~9 comments)
3, ~.because | fee! this would be a good use of my taxes (~5 comments)

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 68 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

4, it's inevitable that things get more expensiverthat’s fe! (~3 comments)

5, but only it
‘a. the money is spent on essentials/well-spent (building, books, staf
marketing)
there is adaitional support from surrounding municipalities that use
the services.
cc. -athere is a ways to get increased support at the City level (will be
necessary).

4d. i's possible

No, | don’t support increased City funding for the Library.

1. ..because | don't want my taxes to go up.
2. the library is fine as its.
3. public costs have to be decreased.

| don’t know if| support increased City funding for the Library...

1... would need more detals before | could give an opinion and it would depend
‘on the business case presented,

2. because | don't live in Brockuille

3. because my taxes are already quite high.

4. --but only if other avenues wore exhausted firs.

‘Some of the comments (under all answers) were as follows:
“It supports families, children, students & seniors in academia, Iteracy, & social ways.

111s an incredible resource that the city should both be funding & using as a publicity
feature (what makes our city great)’

“Brockville would not be the same without the Brockville Public Library!

@Biz*cel

Pg. 69

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

“Yes, because a library is vital to a community. However, the realty is that people
cannot be taxed beyond what they can bear, soit may be that those of us who wish to
use the brary will have to help pay for i. We are coming to atime in our society
where there willbe very litle money to support these vital community organizations
such as the library and the museum. We wil all have fo learn to get by on less, and
the brary will probably have to do the same.

“I think that a library is a community center and Brockville already lacks too many
things to do. Will be hard though to pass by council with economy still not recovered.

“Again a dificult question. Fuly in favour of anything that supports literacy but, at the
‘same time, the idea of "user pay" also seems appropriate.

“The City doesnt realize what it has or how itis used. More funding should be
available fo continue withthe quaity thatthe Brockville citizens continue to enjoy:
especially since we are considered a retirement centre.”

“The library works well for me now, and ike most people I don't want an increase in
my taxes.

“This isa sly question (with the best of intantions). What reason would anyone have
to answer “no.” The answers will not impress the city budget makers. The only
{question that would move the city to increase funding would be: Would you support
{an increase in taxes to fund the library at a higher level - For mo, the answer is yes.”

(@BizXcel

Pg. 70

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Fundraising

‘As a follow-up to the question about increase funding, the Brockville Library polled
‘survey respondents for new ideas for fundraising in the community. total of 485
people provided a comment.

‘Approximately 60 of the comments were along the lines of "No, sorry, I don't have any
ideas’. The majority of comments fel int the folowing categories:

41. Small-scale community-based fundraising ideas (e.g. bake sales, book sales,
‘car washes, contestsirafles, plant sales, yard sales, 50/50, otc)

2. Larger-scale community events (e.g festivals, galas, read-a-thons,
tournaments, silent auctions, family “fun” fundraising days, public fundraisers)

3. Traditional fundraising (e.g. direct mail, stewardship, corporate solictation,
‘government grants, advocacy at the city level, asking for donations ~ cash and
in-kind, offering tax receipts)

4, Partnerships (e.g. collaboration with schools, colleges, other public
‘organizations, service clubs, Brockville Community Foundation)

5. Frionds ofthe Library (Le. a designated fundraising team at the Library)

6. Charging foes for services (0.9. computer use, DVD rentals, space rentals,
memberships, classes/workshops, moviefevent screenings, coffee and baked:
{goods on sale in brary)

7. Hosting events (e.g. kids birthday parties, camps, other partner events)

Investments (e.g. bonds.)

9. AuthoriLiterary Events (e.g. author readings, publishing anthology of local
works, book-themed parties)

10. RetailEnterprise (e.g. gif shop, store with merchandise, book store,

11. Awareness Raising (satelite locations, advertising) to increase imperative

12. Estate Giving Program

(@BizXcel

Pg. 71

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘The idea of a book sale or book fair (ongoing, single-day large event, etc.) was very

popular with more than 50 people suggesting some variation on this theme. Bake
‘sales wore an equally popular idea

‘Some of the unique suggestions included:

Video game tournaments
“Blind date with a Book’ ~ purchase a “mystery” book that is pre-wrapped in
wrapping paper

(Crowd-sourcing (Kickstarter, Indiogogo, etc.)

Hot-air balloon rides

Murder mystery dinner

‘Att rental program

Panhandle

Puzzle sale

Spoling Beos

“Loonies for Libraries’/-Buy a Book Worm’ taped to walls

Costume (dress as your favourite author) Party

Lemonade stand

Poetry Slam

Mount a play atthe Arts Centre

“There are many people who are passionate about literacy. Make the connection
between library use and iteracy. Be a champion for reading and you will find donors
and groups who will help fundraise for you. Invigorate your Friends chapter and your
Board with a spectic goal to improve something at the library

For complete results and all comments, please refer to the Survey Data spreadsheet.

(@BizXcel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 72 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Willing to Pay Fees
Respondents were asked whether they would be wiling to pay “a nominal fee to offset
the cost of some programs”. 1824 people responded to the question, of which 695
people said "Yes" (52.5%), 573 sald "No" (43.3%), and 56 indicated “NIA" (4.2%).

Willing to Pay Fee

yatingToPay

Yes 695
No 573
NA 58

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 73 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Library Non-Users
‘A question was asked to try to ascertain the reasons wiy respondents were not using
tne Library's services. A selection of hypothesized responses was suggested, with an
Other’ category. 1324 responses were received from participants, 754 of whom had
indicated “N/A” (631 of these 754 were Library members).

(Of the respondents who selected a reason, 175 chose “Other” (see “Comments!
‘below. The most popular categories for those who chase one of the hypothesized
reasons was “I don't fee! like | have any reason to use the library” (143 respondents)
followed by “I don't know what the library has to offer” (102 respondents),

Comments - Non-Users
Under ‘Other’, there were 175 responses. These responses were summarized into the
following thematic categories (roughly in order of frequency):

‘+ Non-Residents (location too far away, cost of a card, membership elsewhere)
‘+ Time (too busy)
‘+ Technology (e-teaders, computersinternet.

@Biz*cel

Pg. 74

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Recently moved to the area
Will stat coming now

No need for the Library
Parking

Programming at bad times

‘Other reasons given (one-off examples) included: not being able to find a quiet study
space; fining that e-books were never available; fines for late returns prohibitive; bad
‘experiences with staf; difcully reading; not familiar with lbrary: preferring to buy
books; not having heard back from Library re: e-eader training

@Biz*cel

Pg. 75

“Now, public
libraries are most
admirable
institutions, but
they have one
irritating custom.
They want their
books back.”

Cecil B. DeMille

(Autobio Cecil B.
DeMille)

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Changes

‘The Brockvile Public Library has a recently new CEO and has been making changes
to the layout and offerings ofthe Library. As a result, the Board fet it was important to
ask survey participants how they felt about the recent changes. 1288 people
responded to this question. 84.9% of respondents fee! thatthe changes have been
postive, whilet2.3% et the changes wore neutral (neither postive nor negative).
‘Thore were only 27 people who felt that the changes had been negative. 23.8% hadn't
noticed any changes, and 26.9% answered “ dont know

Please see Appendix B, Table 12 for more detail.

Recent Changes

RecentChanges

“he changes hve a
‘The changes have been ether pose nor negsive Pew), 162
(atenaraee?rnaver need an changes 28
"he ranges nove een poste a

Please see next page for example comments and more details on the feedback trom
respondents on changes to the Library.

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 76 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Comments

There were 164 comments regarding recent changes to the Library. They are
‘summarized under the headings “Posie Feedback”, “Negative Feedback’, ‘Noutral
Feedback” and "Suggestions" as follows, with example quotations included.

Positive Feedback:

“Love the changes in the last year, especialy the variety of magazines and e-reader
availabily. Library is clean, bright and organized. Hats off to a wonderful change.

1. Improved Book Arrangements

‘+ Loss cluttered, easier to find books

‘© Constantly switched up aisplays to be consistent with
sseason/holidays/events
‘Adult nonfiction labels by topic
Suggested reading materials; “hot” books near reception
‘Author's complete works together (hard cover and paperbacks)
Books forsale / Gift wrapped books
Separation of adullchldren’s sections, teen/YA arrangement

"Llike the separation ofthe adult vs. children’s sections. The placing of the Hor”
fiction/non-fiction books near reception is appreciated”

2. Collection

‘© Quick acquisition of new titles and bestsellers
“The Library isthe best bargain taxpayers and out of City tax-payers could possibly
have. A gem.

3. Information
‘+ Lots of locations for information posted
‘+ New programs posted, friendly invitations everywhere
‘+ Social networking information about programs

"Good information regarding events posted in lots of locations (even outdoors).

(@BizXcel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 77 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

4. Accessibility
+ Signage is helpful and interesting

“The library is a great community leader in accessibility fr persons with disabiltios.
‘Keep the great work going.”

5. Furnishings and Amenities
+ Coffee!
* Beanbag chairs/Comty chairs (more please!}icouch
+ More welcoming, inviting, lively, attractive, cleaner
+ More user-friendly and interactive
* More space/open, bright
+ Baskets for carrying books are great
+ New furniture in meeting room, upstairs. Clean rugs.

“The changes are helping to use the library services more effectively’

6. Programs
+ Game On: Tween Esition
+ Kids programs and teen programs
+ More library programming (community orientation) and community
involvement

“Like the fact that the library seems to be offering more diverse interactions with the
‘communit...crats, family events, and that there seems to be efforts to include all age

groups.
7. Other

* Use of the meeting room
+ Staff were helpful during changes ~ and always!
+ Evolving with input from the community is great
+ Better location for the Head Librarian
+ Paintings on walls

“Tove you

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 78 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘Negative Feedback

1. Book Arrangements
‘© Unable to find large print books.
© Moved rack of current non-fiction at the entrance to the adult floor
© Harder to find current and popular adult books because of reduced
display size
© Organization too much ike a retail environment
Paperbacks no longer in turn-styles
Harder to locate kids’ books
“Pocket books and hardcover fictional together - doesn't quite give the impression
rary is will stocked in hardcover, adult new arrivals on main floor not on 2nd floor
adult section

2. Culled Books
‘© Too many books gone from shelves (most common concern)
© Older authorsiclassics removed
© Limited selection now
© Shelves look bare
“Far 100 many books have been removed. The shelves look strangely empty now, and
ifs sad to think of them all being discarded.

3. Library Layout

“Moving the microfilm reader and other equipment near the art exhibit area takes away
‘rom the art displays!

4. E-Books

‘© Too many books only available as an e-book

“Tunderstand that the library needs to keep current with societal trends, however, |
find a lot of “hangers around’ of persons who are using the Internet/ computer
stations. I's become more of a "Chapters" experience - available coffee etc. and
Chatter rather than quiet, respectful information gathering.

(@BizXcel

Pg. 79

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘Neutral Feedback

Most of the neutral feedback pertained to ether not using the library (38 comments),
‘or not having noticed changes (12 comments). Some others taked about geting used
to change:

‘+ "Some books were put spine showing instead of face of book and authors put
together. Took some getting used to

‘* "Not sure Ike what was happening last time I was in but don't know what the
results might be when finished”

‘+ “Tm neutral upon this subject, mostly because | have not yet had the
‘opportunity to experience these changes ull.

‘+ “Ittakes a while to figure out where everything has gone.

‘Suggestions

‘Some respondents took this opportunity to offer suggestions. These included
increased comfortable reading chairs and better chairs in the bridge room, the
‘opportunity to have a tour ofthe library when you join andlor a notice with information
‘on the new layout, and to bring back the paperback racks. One person commented
that they would like the 3 hour maximum limit on the computer to be removed. Finally,
‘one person suggested that grouping books by author was great, but harder for finding
{genres and recommended a sticker on the spine of the book with a visual aid to
indicate genre (or example, a spyglass for mystery books).

(@BizXcel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 80 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Experience

Participants were asked to rate how satisfied they were with their Library experience
‘on a scale from 1 to 5, with 5 representing “Very Happy” and 1 representing ‘Not tall
happy’. 1202 responses were colleced. The majority scored their experience as either
‘a“4" (401 people) or “5° (405 people), which indicates a high level of satistaction with
the Library (67% of respondents). 17% (205 people) selected “I don't know’. The
majority ofthese (185 people) were non-members.

Ranking: Library Experience

Libranporence

Igontknow 205
1 4
2 2
a rd
4 401
5 405

Members Only: When controlled for Library card holders only, the results clearly show
that ofthe people familiar withthe ibrar, they are overwhelmingly positive about their
‘experiance. 74 library members answered the question. 83% of these chase a "4" or
“5° indicating high levels of satisfaction with Library experience among members.

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 81 <> BROCE

Ranking: Library Experience (Members Only)

Lbran@perence
dont know

2
3
4
5

FINAL REPORT

Fd
Fa
7
eo

209

26

@Biz*cel

Pg. 82

PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Qualitative Results: Summaries of Open
Field Survey Comments

For each of the following five open field questions, the results were analyzed by
‘counting the frequency that certain features were mentioned in each category. The

analysis was done by reading through each comment and tallying up the number of
times a feature was mentioned. Those tales were then compared to the number of
times and the examples of instances where key words appeared in the comments in
Microsoft Word, Alltalies are approximate and based on subjective analysis.

Strengths
‘The following characteristics ofthe scary were the most frequently listed “strengths”
in the comments provided. Please see Appendix A for comment samples.

Feature Approximate Tay

Books: large selection, variety, easy to find 173

* Clean 1

TT
tonne tie
nero Set ana teeter a

ymputer and Internet Access (Including Wi-

Interlibrary Loan Program 39

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

ildren’s Programs 33

Innovaveness Ups date 32
‘Size 25
E-Books Readers and suppor 19
Free 18
Book Displays (recommended reading, new releases, etc, a
‘Community-oriented and family-oriented 10
Book Sales 3

Book Club Sus 5

Cotte 5

‘Now library cards 5

Printing/Photoco}

Microfilm 2

‘Other strengths that were mentioned atleast once included:

+ Pedometers Learning programs for seniors
‘+ Holiday decorations + Easy reference guides
© Forward:-thinking + Aplace to meat people
‘© Monthly lst of new books and + CNIB collection

videos * Online journals and research
‘© Ability to maximize limited lbeary

resources. + PFLAG
‘+ Responsive to patron's needs + Separating the children's areas
© Cham ‘rom the quiet study areas so
‘© Ontario-wide membership that everyone can enjoy the
© Convenience space

@Biz*cel

Pg. 84

BROCKVILLE

PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Weaknesses

‘The following comments were the most frequently listed “weaknesses” of BPL.

Please see Appendix A for comment samples.

Feaiur ‘Approximate Tall
NA 125
Layout/Space/Atmosphere/Décor/Smell 74
‘© Space 20
+ Decor 12
© Smell 8
* Dark 6
Hours (esp. Monday) R
Book Collection Generally/Selection 58
Parking 38
Location (esp. North End usage issues) 35
‘Computersiinternet (number of, functionality) 32
Facilties/Ease of Use/Quality of Books 30
Customer service’Statf 24
Presence in community/Knowledge of programs 7
Cost of membership 7
Media (Selection quality) 13
‘Accessibility/Acceptance 3
2
10
Online ServicesiUser Friendliness of 10
Children’s Programs (More hours, variety) 10
Reference books/Research/Tech/History/Non-Fiction 10
Loan Duration (Books/DVDs/Audio/EBooks) 9
YA Books and Programs 8
Online Resources (user friendly, download times, able to
download without coming to library, etc.) 7
Inadequate FundingiNot valued in Community 6
Late Fees (DVDs, books) 6
‘Another book dropiclosed during day time 6
Branch in north end 6
Video Games Selection 5
‘Adult Workshops/Programs (types, times) 5
Interlibrary Loan 4
Clientele (Youth programs, mentally challenged, teenagers) 4
Different Language Resources 4
Cost of services (e.g. lamination, disc recovery) 4

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 85 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘Alert on Due Dates (email, call reminders)

a
Library with physical books is becoming an obsolete idea 3
Misuse of resources 2
E-book selection 2
Periodicals available online (should be) 2
Programming 2

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 86 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

What would make you use the Library more?
‘The following table ists the top 20 most common responses to the question ‘What
would make you use the Library moro?

Please see Appendix A for comment samples. Please see Appendix B, Table 14 for
‘more details.

Customer Service/Statt

Internet (Wi)

Parking

E-Books, E-Readers

Décor

Cale Style

Kids Programs/Workshops/Events

‘Author Nights!Lectures

More Computers

Seating

VD Selection

Batter Marketing

More Activities! Workshops! Events! Groups

Free Membership
Location i ved closer)

More time

ett

Extended Hours
‘The Library is good as itis.

Nothing

"New Books / Updated Selection

@Bizcel


BROCKVILLE
Pg. 87 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘Some of the other factors that atleast one person stated would increase thelr usage of
the Library were:

+ Having access to Libraries in multiple counties with one membership
+ Improved book search system

+ More computer games

+ Abooth where they could watch DVDs inthe Library
+ Payments

+ Having children

‘+ Musical performance lounge

+ Easy printer use

+ A “cooler hangout

+ No food near the books

+ Kindle books available

+ Child care in the tbrary

+ Adult section on main floor

+ Self-checkout

+ More comfortable environment

+ Current materials

+ Sporting events broadcast

+ Used university textbooks available

+ More services in general

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 88 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

What do you think the Library could be like in five to ten
years?
‘The following comments were the most requenty sted responses tothe question

“What do you think the Library could be like in five to ten years?”

Please see Appendix A for comment samples. See Appendix B, Table 13 for details

Welltunded

‘Adapt to changes quickly

Gonefess used

Now programsiservices

poate

Vinwal

‘Stay tue to paper copiesmaterials

‘The same
Expandedibigger (bigger builging, now
staff, more hours, modem décor, second

‘TT

|
|
a
=

online presence (e-resources,
2 40 60 8 100 120

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 89 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘Other ideas about the future ofthe Library includes!

* Provider of many family experiences
+ Hopefully sill there

+ Catering to seniors

+ Not having annual membership fees for people outside Brockville
+ Completely automated

+ More helpful fo disabled people

+ More personal

+ Always improving

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 90 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Other Comments

The following char ilustrates the most frequently cited comments for the Brockvile
Library when survey participants were asked i hey had “any further comments”
‘There were 926 responses. The majority of people who commented said very positive
things. Some people took the opportunity to provide suggestions or requests for
improvements. Below the chart are several of the other comments received.

Please see Appendix A for sample comments from this section. Please see Appendix
B, Table 18 for more details.

Please Keep Evolving
This Suvey Confised Mo
Love tho Large Pit Books
Love tho At Work
Please Kogp the Books
The Sat Aon Fiend
More Kids Programs
1 Dont Need the Library
Please improve Décor
Please nrove Paring
Faes are Too Expenive
Please Make The Ubrary More Teor
“Tank you forgoing tis survey ae
BetMore Technology and Computers. pat
More Advertising and Ctreach, Paso fam
Sta are great mp
Noting ts: —

Love the Library (Thank you! Keep it up)

0 2 40 60 @9 100 120 140

‘Other comments and suggestions:
+ Clients lovediwanted more of:

© The interibrary loan

© The book selection
© Website/Oniine Services

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 91 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

© Comfortable seating
© E-Books

© Free library cards for students

© Support for seniors

© Use of volunteers

© Book clubs

© Videogames and DVDs

© Young Adult Books

‘©The changes initiated under the new Chief Librarian

+ Requests included:
© Afood machine
© Please don't get rid of the paper books
© Automated reminders of due books
© Clubs for sports-oriented teens
© Photo ID library cards
© More arts partnerships
© Magnifying glasses
© E:reader workshops
© More copies of e-books please
© Daycare
© Classes and workshops
© Longer hours
© Aseparate section for new movies
© Please don't let the Library become obsolete

+ Complaints included:
© Disc cleaning is too expensive
© The noise level upstairs is too high
© The front doors are heavy
© Monday's open hours are too short

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 92 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

© The empty shelves are not good.
© Travel books are outdated

“One of the
nastier trends in ©The Ontario Library e-book centre has downgraded, rather than
library improved, their website with recent changes and its hard to navigate
management in © The location

recent years is ‘© Please do not put scan codes over the titles ofthe books

the notion that © The new chairs on the ground floor are inferior

libraries should be © Throwing out books is bad

‘responsive to © Youth loitering and smoking outside is bad for business.

their patrons’”
‘+ Suggestions included:
‘© Offer library cards to non-residents who volunteer atthe Library
© Keep collaborating and communicating with local area libraries.
© Look for new ideas and madels for evolving in Libraries around the
world

Connie Willis

© Actively seek out positive PR and advertising of services and events,
pperhaps through a partnership and local column in the paper

‘© Hold open-house events annually and workshops for students to
‘orient them and introduce them to the Library

© Post alist of large print books that could be purchased and donated
to the Library for people who want a greater selection in this area

© Charge nominal fees for programs for participants who can afford to
pay them

© Please watch the movies before assigning them to kids/adult section.
‘Some of the movies in the kids’ section are inappropriate for children

© Offer art, music, dance and poetry classes for youth.

© Offer a visiting centre for authors and host a lecture series

© Have a pay-per-use option for people who don't want to buy a card

© Use smartphones to improve the Library services (apps, etc)

© Please improve the customer service

(@BizXcel

Pg. 93

“Alibrary is a
place where you
lear what
teachers were
afraid to teach
you."

Alen M.
Deshowitz

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Comparative Analysis of Survey Data

The data was queried to examine some specific sub-groups of data based on age.
‘The Library Board was specifically interested in Youth and Seniors. The results
hightghted are those where there was divergent results based on age andlor useful
information for planning purposes.

Youth
‘There were 927 survey respondents between the ages of 7-19. The majority of these
(810) wore age 12 to 19. All descriptions of “youth” inthe following charts
include all respondents age 7-19, both member and non, unless otherwise
noted (2.9. in some cases, older vs. younger, or member vs. non- are identitie).

Library Use - Youth:

‘There were some key differences and similares between youth responses and the
general survey responses:

+The majority of youth respondents were neither Library members nor Library
users. 212 youth respondents were non-members and 159 youth respondents
indicated that they "Never" visited the Library in person. Of the 115 youth
members, only 8 respondents (7%4) indicated that they "Never" used the
Library.

+ Youth were not very likely to use the website. Half of the youth respondents
with memberships at BPL said they "Never" accessed the Library online,
‘compared to roughly a quarter ofall members. Only a quarter ofall youth
respondents access the Library online, and the majority indicated that they did
‘0 infrequently. The data shows that youth members accessed the online
‘sorvicesiwebsite at a lower rate than the general member response rate.

Below we showed all youth responses and then we controlled the responses for BPL
members versus non-members. See the following pages for member-spectic chars.

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 94 7” PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘All Youth Respondents: Library Use

‘Youth In-Person Visits

Gcormare times per weet) 3

eter atin ees nan orce pot mon, aproxmaiey) ob
Dssin sw Ibmes par marth, sprxmsih 2
E Resuary once per week, sores *

Youth Online Visits

ity ona par wee spent t

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 95 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Youth Members Only ~ Library Use
Youth Meiers In Person Visits

bcm sue 3 tmes prs
Regan nce oeweekspposrae

‘Youth Members Online Visits

ncn sien pmo ema),
Fasory once per week shart i

@Biz*cel

Pg. 96

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Hours - Yout

Fourteen percent of youth member respondents indicated thatthe current Library
‘open hours were inadequate. This represents a greater proportion than of the youth
‘overall, of whom 9% felt thatthe hours were inadequate. Similarly less than 10% of all
survey respondents had felt that the hours were inadequate. However, 53% of all
respondents, and 46% of all youth respondents felt that there was room for
improvement even though the hours were “adequate”

[You Resprma to Current Open Hours

Vout Monters Response to Crent Open Hors

(@BizXcel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 97 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Products and Services - Youth:

‘The most popular product’service forall youth was teen'young adult books. Older
youth (14-19) were more likely than younger youth to be interested in adult books,
_adult magazines, study rooms, cotfee printing services, online databases, Recorder
and Times Microfilm, and adult audiobooks. Younger youth (7-13) were more likely
than the older youth to be interested in teen and children’s entertainment DVDs, teen
and children’s nonfiction DVDs, teen CDs, teen audiobooks, children’s books, the
seating areasireading chairs, intemet training, disc repair, laminating, and more.

‘See Appendix B, Table 16 for complete details.

Top 20 Youth Product/Service
Interests (Age 7-13)

Online Hold Renew Services
Entertainment OVDs (Children)
Study Fooms

Laminating

Dise Repair

‘Audiobooks (Teen)

None

Photocopying

Internet Training
Entertainment DVDs (Adu)
Books (Adult)

‘Seating Areas/Reading Chats
(CDs (Teen)

Printing

Nonfiction OVDs (Teen)
Books (Ghidren)

Magazines (Teen)
Computersinienet
Entertainment DVDs (Teen)
Books (Teen)

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 98 98 <> BaLe FINAL REPORT

Top 20 Youth Product/Service
Interests (14-19)

ook (Con) J
nine Databases
Cnine Hold Renew Senices al
Magazine ()
pasactoom oe)
Seating AreasReading Chars
0s (Teer)
Inert Tealning |
Photocopying
Cote
—
Entertainment DVDs (Ads)
Sudy ons
Picco VR
Magazines (Teen)
Extetaoent DVDs (Toor)
Comueshiens
sos At
5s 1) ST
0 20 40 60 a0 100 120 140 160

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE

Pg. 99

PUBLIC LIBRARY

Programs and Events - Youth:

FINAL REPORT

‘Youth were more likely to show an interest in the products and services tfered by the

Library than their programs and events. The majority of youth respondents were not

interested in participating in any of the programs or events listed in the survey.

‘Older youth were more likely to choose “None” than younger youth. They were also
mote likely to be interested in the Teen Dropsin, Open Mic, and the Crochet Society
‘Younger youth were mare likely to be interested in movies, craft workshops, Lego
Club, Game On, Stories/Crafts and Storytime. Both age groups were equally
interested in a teen writers workshop.

Please see Appendix B, Table 17 for complete details.

Youth Program/Event
Interests (Age 7-13)

‘Adult Community Living
‘Seniors Book Club
sa

crochet Society
Keriterary Nights
Bridge

‘Adult Book Cub
Read to Every Kid
‘Super Saturdays
Open Mic

‘Teen Drop in
Storytime
StoresiCrats
‘Teen Writers
‘Game On

Lego Club

Cal Workshops
Movies

None

=

—

ol

—

—

—

—
———
————

10 20D

50

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 100 PUBLIC LIBRARY

FINAL REPORT

Youth Program/Event Interests
(Age 14-19)

Adu Community Ling }
Kriterary Nights |
‘Super Saturdays}
Seniors Book Cub
Bridge
GSA
‘Adult Book Cub
Read to Every Kid
Game On
Storie a
StoriesCeats mm
Crochet Society fm
Lego Club mm)

Open ic

Crat Workshops

‘Teen Oop)

0 20 40 60 a0 100 120 140 160

@Biz*cel

Pg. 101

PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘Youth ranked the features and spaces at the Library on a scale from 1-5 with 5
representing Excellent and 1 representing Very Poor. As withthe whole-survey
results, a significant number of youth chose "I don't know” when ranking many of the
spaces. This may be either because the respondent isnot a library member, or
because they have never used the library.

In the graphs below, the“! don’t know’ option has been removed from the graph.
Underneath each graph is indicated the number of people who selected "I don't know’
{or that feature. This allows fora clearer picture ofthe rankings while stil taking note
‘of the number of people who opted out of providing a response,

‘The following data includes both members and non-members.

Youth Ranking: Accessible Furnishing

Spacos_AccossibleFurnishings

4 5
"
2
38
a

+ I don't know: 200 respondents

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 102 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Youth Ranking: Computer Stations

Spaces_ComputerSations

4 8
2 2
a i
4 fa
5 2

+ I don't know: 195 respondents

Youth Ranking: Library Layout

Spaces_Librantayout

4 2
2 7
3 “a
4 85
5 at

+ I don't know: 115 respondents

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 103 7” PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Youth Ranking: Decor

SSpacos_Detor

2 2
2 @
rar)

o

+ I don't know: 126 respondents

Youth Ranking: Meeting Rooms

Spaces_MeetingRoome
1 2

2
3 40
4
5

+ I don't know: 181 respondents

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 104 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Youth Ranking: Quiet Study Spaces

‘Spaces_duetstuay
4

5

8

5

4

+ I don't know: 193 respondents

Youth Ranking: Reading Chairs

Spaces_ReadingChats
5
8
a“
81
66

+ don't know: 130

pondents

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 105 Y” PUBLIC LIBRARY

FINAL REPORT

Youth Ranking: Technology Services

Spaces_TechnologySenioes

2
3
4
5

+ I don't know: 151 respondents

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 106 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘Access - Youth

‘A relatively high number of youth (10%) indicated that they were not able to access
the Library in its downtown location compared to just 3% of all survey respondents.

Youth - Able to Access Downtown Location

.eeDowntownLacation

Yes 212
No 3
Iidont know 68

@Biz*cel

Pg. 107

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

More Service Points - Youth:

(Of the 168 youth who expressed a definitive opinion, the majority indicated an interest
in having more service points availabe to them to access the Library in diferent ways
(eg. through a kiosk, book drop or second location)

Youth - More Service Points

otherServicePoinis

Yes 116
No 52
dont know 142

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 108 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Willing to Pay Fee ~ Youth:

‘The majority of youth (67.3%) were not wiling to pay nominal fees to access
programs.

This result difers trom the overall survey, where respondents overall were more
willing to pay fees than youth respondents specifically (52.5% of all respondents said
"Yes" they would be willing to pay fees: 43.3% sald "No".

Willing to Pay Fee

wulingToPay

Yes 99
No 220
NA 8

@Biz*cel

Pg. 109

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Seniors

‘There were 163 survey respondents aged 65 or above. All descriptions of “seni
In the following charts include all respondents age 65+, both member and non-,
Unless otherwise noted. Of the 163 seniors, 194 were Brockville Library members,
land & had memberships at other libraries. The survey received responses from 95
female and 61 male seniors.

‘Open Hours - Ser

Marginally less seniors felt that the open hours were not adequate (8% of seniors
‘compared to just less than 10% ofall espondents). All 12 of these respondents were
Library members. The majority ofall senior respondents (52%) felt that the hours were
‘adequate, and 40% felt that the hours were great.

‘Serees Response to Caren Open Hors

Sener Members Response to Cent Openers

(@BizXcel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 110 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

In Person Visits - Seniors

Seniors were more likely to vist the Library in-person than ontine, and they were more
likely to visit the Library weekly in-person. Online access was less frequent overall

Seniors" In-Person Visits
ty ora tes pret 2
Fave ore than one per west) 18
Hetvervatien nes nore armor, aperosmaty) 24
Dneeia sue elumes perma spray” 50
Regu (nce er week spose o

‘Senior Members" In-Person Visits
ay orm tines pre) 2
Frequeny gore Manone ger weet) 3
Nate atin Gees han orca porrar paromatn) 16
‘sein snes ie

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 111 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Online Visits - Seniors

Seniors’ Online Visits

| Notverafen fuss Man ones per mari aporoamatey) 32

Senior Members’ Online Visits

Noten ote sesh oes permersy arama)

@Biz*cel

Pg. 112

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Products and Services - Seniors

‘The following graph represents the top 21 products and services in which seniors
‘expressed an interest. Books, interibrary loans, DVDs, online services and the Never:
‘ending books sale were the most popular items.

Please see Appendix B, Table 18 for a complete ranking.

Top 21 Seniors Product/Services
Interests

Seating AreasReading Chars jm
Laminating
Book Club Kits
Recorder and Times Microfim jum
eAiobooks jam
Cottee jam
Online Databases mm
‘Readers mm
Ds (Adu) mm
Photocopying fmm
Non-Fiction DVDS (Adit) jm
Computesiniemet ma
Meeting Rooms mms
‘Audiobooks (Adu) mm
Internet Tracing oma
Magazines (Adult)
Neverending Bock Sale =a
Online Holdenew Serices ===
Entertainment DVDs (Adu) Se
Intetray Loar
Books (Adit) tes |
0 20 40 60 a0 100 120 140 160

@Biz*cel

Pg. 113

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Programs and Events - Seniors

Similar to al groups measured, seniors were most likely to indicate that they did not
have an interest in any of the programs/events mentioned (.e. the majority selected
None’). However, book clubs and bridge were the most popular activites on offer,

followed by Open Mic, craft workshops and movies.

Please see Appendix B, Table 19 for full details.

Seniors Program/Event
Interests

Teen Writers
Teen Drop in)
Gsa }

‘Super Saturdays
Game On»

Lego Club
crochet Society
Storytime
Read to Every Kid
Kriterary Nights

‘StoresiCratis
‘Adult Community Living
Movies me
Cat Workshops jamm
Open Mic
Adult B00% Club
Erid0o
Seniors 800k Cub
None SSS
0 2 4 6 8 100

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 114 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘Transportation and Access ~ Seniors

“The majority of seniors would drive to the Library; however, 24% indicated that they
also walk to the lary

Method of Transportation - Seniors

Online Other
Drop-O11 S30 196
Oe

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 115 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘Access - Seniors

(Of all senior respondents, only 3 respondents indicated that they “dint know" if they
were able to access the downtown location. The remaining 98% of respondents
indicated that "Yes" they could access the downtown location. There were no seniors
who said they could not access the downtown location

Ser

+s Able to Access Downtown Location
ecessDavntownLacation

Yee 144
Tort know 3

119% of seniors who responded to the survey indicated that they required accessible

parking
Requiring Accessible Parking
NeedaecassibleP acing
Yee 16
No 1m

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 116 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

More Service Points ~ Seniors

(Of the 147 seniors who responded to the question "Do you think thatthe Library needs
‘other service points such as kiosks, book drops, or other branches?” only 17.7% sald
"Yes", compared to 30.6% of all respondents. 44.2% sald “No” (compared to 37.8% of
all espondents) and 38.1% said “I don't know" (compared to 31.6% ofall
respondents)

Seniors - More Service Points

omerservcePoins

Yes 26
No 85
Tdontknow 58

@Biz*cel

Pg. 117

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Seniors -|

Cards for Non-Residents

147 seniors responded to the survey question regarding whether the Library should
offer free memberships to persons who work or go to school in Brockville, but live
‘outside of the municipality

Seniors were lass likely to agree to offer free cards to non-residents compared to all
survey respondents, however, a majority (57%) still indicated “Yes”, the Library should
offer free cards to non-residents (compared to 68.2% of all survey respondents)

Seniors - Free Cards for Non’Residents

CcardsononBrockilo

Yes a
No 2
Tdontknow 35

@Biz*cel

Pg. 118

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Facilities - Seniors’ Rankings

Seniors ranked the features and spaces at the Library on a scale from 1-5 with 5
representing Excellent and 1 representing Very Poor. As withthe whole-survey
results, a significant number of seniors chose “I don't know" when ranking many of the
spaces. This may be either because the respondent isnot a library member, or
because they have never used the library.

In the graphs below, the“! don’t know’ option has been removed from the graph.
Underneath each graph is indicated the number of people who selected "I don't know’
{or that feature. This allows fora clearer picture ofthe rankings while stil taking note

‘of the number of people who opted out of providing a response,

‘The following data includes both members and non-members.

\ccessible Furnishing

Saves, AecessibleFuishings
1 a

3

10
13
®

I don’t know - 113 senior respondents

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 119 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘Seniors’ Ranking: Computer Stations

Spaces_ComputerSations

4 6
2 7
a 4
4 30
5 it

| don’t know ~ 61 senior respondents

Seniors’ Ranking: Library Layout

SSpaces_LiranyLayout

4 10
2 a
3 2
4 53
5 8

| don’t know ~ 18 senior respondents

@Biz*cel

Pg. 120

BROCKVILLE
Y PUBLIC LIBRARY

FINAL REPORT

Seniors’ Ranking: Decor

Spaces_Detor

I don't know ~ 25 sei

1

2
3
‘
5

respondents

35
8
0

Seniors" Ranking: Meeting Rooms

‘Spaces_MeetingFooms

| don’t know ~ 70 senior respondents

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 121 PUBLIC LIBRARY

Seniors’ Ranking: Quiet Study Spaces

Spaces_ouetsuay

1 6
2 7
3 15
4 2
5 20

| don’t know ~ 68 senior respondents

FINAL REPORT

Seniors’ Ranking: Reading Chairs

SSpaces_ReadingChaks
1 6
2 10
3 20
4 in
5 6

| don’t know ~ 46 senior respondents

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 122 Y PUBLIC LIBRARY

FINAL REPORT

Seniors’ Ranking: Technology Services
Spaces_TeemnologySeriees

6

2 a

a 15

4 2

5 14

I don’t know ~ 77 sei

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 123 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Willing to Pay Fee - Seniors

‘The majority of seniors (68.7%) responding to the survey indicated that they would be
willing to pay a nominal fee to access some services. This was a stark comparison to
the youth responses: 67.3% of youth were not wiling to pay nominal fees to access:
programs and services atthe Library.

Seniors - Willing to Pay Fee

\yaingToPay

Yes 112
No 40
NAO

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 124 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Recent Changes ~ Seni

Seniors felt, for the most part, that changes at the Library had been either positive
(48% of soniors) or neutral (13.5%). Only 5% felt that the changes had been negative.
15.5% had not noticed any changes.

Seniors' Responses to Recent Changes

RecentChanges
he change hae been nepabe °
“Ie nanges have Been meth postive nernenabe (aus). 20
"he changes have been pose n

@Biz*cel

Pg. 125

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Library Experience — Seniors

Fifty-one percent (5194) of seniors responding to the survey indicated the highest level
of satisfaction with their Library experiences. A further 26.5% were mostly satisfied (4

‘out of 5). 10.9% indicated they were dissatisfied by selecting a ranking of either 1 or 2
out of 5.

Seniors" Ranking: Library Experience

Lbran@perence

Idontknow 7
t "

5

10

2

15

@Biz*cel

Pg. 126

“Alliorary book, |
imagine, is a
happy book."

‘Comelia Funke

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Conclusion

‘The Library has undertaken an extensive report and gathered a significant volume of
data. This data can be used on an ongoing basis for analysis and planning purposes.

“The next step ofthis process willbe to develop the Strategic Plan for the Library. This
Strategic Plan will raw on the information contained inthis repor to help set priorities
{or improvement, to advocate on behalf of the Library, and to continue to reach out to
the community.

Several key themes emerged throughout this report for consideration by the Library
Board of Directors as they approach their planning sessions.

1

‘Advocacy: The public is confused and concemed about the evalving role of
the Library. They are keen to see the Library innovate, Keep current and play
‘an increasingly central ole in their ives as a community hub and as a source
of information and tree resources. However, they are also concerned that
technology will move the Library away from its business of providing physical
(not just cigita) resources and that technology could ultimately threaten the
Library’ role inthe community. This fear and uncertainty around the role of
libraries presents an opportunity to start a dialogue in the community around
What the Library can provide and what kind of place people want itt be. The
responses in this report give some clues: people generally want their libraries
to be open, attractive spaces that are safe and welcoming for people of all
‘ages. People are interested in preserving and enhancing the ablty of the
Library to provide free resources. Also, respondents indicated that the Library
plays a key role in providing educational support to members of all ages
whether it be for e-reader tutorials or help learning to read. Advocacy inthe
‘community for the Library with information about what is offered will help to
strengthen people's confidence and connection tothe Library.

(@BizXcel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 127 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

2, Atmosphere: It was interesting that atmosphere and décor appeared both as
a strength and a weakness of the Library. As a strength, words tke clean’
organized’, “easy to use", ‘bright’, “open’, “friendly” were used. As a
weakness, people described a “dark” space with a musty smell and out-of-date
décor. I the role of the Library is increasingly evolving to that of a community
hub, it willbe necessary to continue to invest in making the faciltios as
attractive and pleasant as possible.

3. Accessibility: The Library is open enough hours to meet ts minimum
standards and to compete with libraries in simitar-sized towns. However,
Library clients still would lke to see the Library open longer on Mondays and
Fridays, consistent hours year-round, open longer into the evening and eattior
in the morning. Parking was also a concern for some. The deficit of tree
parking as well as challenges with the curb near the disabled parking spaces
‘wore all challenges for people, especialy those with mobiity challenges. There
was also a high rate of response to the survey question about whether people
\who work and attend schoo! in Brockville (but pay taxes elsewhere) should be
eligible for free cards: the majority of people sald yes, and a significant number
‘sald that foes for memberships was a substantial barrier to their use ofthe
Library.

‘These are only three possible areas of focus. This data provides valuable insight that
Can help to inform the strategic decisions of Brockville Public Library going forward,
‘enabling the Library to be responsive to the needs of is patrons.

(@BizXcel

Pg. 128

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Contact Information

Linda Chadwick

BROCKVILLE <0
PUBLIC LIBRARY. 6:22:22%

Fax 613-342.9598,
linda@brockvillelibrary.ca

Report prepared by:

BizXcel Sk:

99zhk@bizxcol.com
egreen@bizxcel.com

@Biz*cel

Pg. 129

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Appendix A: Comment Samples

1. “Strengths” Comments
‘There were 743 comments provided in response to the question: “What do you lke
about the Brockville Library? What are the Library's strengths?”

Here is a sample of those comments:
“its one of the few truly "Free" experiences.”

“Love dowloading eBooks from home and the brary makes that easy.

Lam in a book club and we receive inter brary loans. Laura is incredibly efficient at
making this happen every month and I am so approciatve ofthis.

“ke programs that are offered for youth. | think that is very important especialy for
children who come don't have opportunities due to poverty. | think ater school
programs are important.”
Its super strength isthe children's area - the space, the resources & the
programming make this a child-riendly space with early Iteracy as a clear
‘goal, where children feel comfortable and welcome. Having the children's’ area
separate from the quiet adult area upstairs means they aren't disturbing other
people. The amount of participation | see with youthiteen events shows that
they fee! equally at home at BPL.
“The Brockville Library is becoming more than just a library which houses
information and that is crucial given the changes in technology. | feel the library
is providing more than information it is providing the community with a number

‘of helpful programs and a source for networking and learning. The smaller rural
libraries could learn from Brockville's example,

“Lowe hours' worth of movie watching to the Brockville Library's movie
collection, not to mention years' worth of book borrowing and exhibit space.
Thank you!"

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE

Pg. 130 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

“Provides a critical service to promote and encourage literacy, groat resource of
Information without the cost of purchasing thos

“Beautiful historic building.”

“Like where itis located in the downtown core.”

“Ith i's responsive to patrons’ needs.”
‘Displays new non-fiction books on second floor cabinet. These are what | look for

‘each time I enter the library.
“think i's a great way to teach your children the joy of reading books without
having to buy them.”

think the location is great. The facility is modern and well laid out, bright for

‘easy reading ~ especially helpful for us older users with weak eyesight.

“Wifi, coffee and comfy chairs.”
“The library is part of Brockvile's heritage, itis a beautiful bulding. The staff are pro-
active in marketing al the adaltonal features the library offers. The exhibit walldisplay
cease isa great feature fr groupsitestivals and special events to utilize - at no charge!
“The layout makes it easy to tnd materia.”
“The Brockville Public library is one of the most wolcoming places in Brockville
Many youth indicate they foe! safe there and itis very welcoming to the LGBTQ
‘community.
“Children's area layout I can look for books and movies while my child is on
the computer and stil see her. Main floor layout is pertoct”

It is great to have access tothe Internet when I eannot afford te own a computer.”

“The staff and the excessive amount of books available.

‘Fantastic bargain for all Brockville taxpayers. A really good “deal”

“Entertainment sections like the DVD's and magazines....it attracts
people who would generally not come”

@Biz*cel

Pg. 131

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

“I love that if a book | want is not there, | have the
option of Interlibrary Loan to obtain almost anything |
want. No library has everything. | rarely buy books
so the library is THE place for me! Haven't gone to a
reader yet and | like books, hard copy books, pick
‘em up and put ‘em down books. | hope that will
always be available.”

“The library has always been a peacetl place to come and although | get book store git cards
{or git they are very expensive. The brary is an excellent deal all the way around,

“The library started our daughter on a career in ibrarian functions. She is
doing wll. Thank you.
“like the kids’ comer and that the staff do not get mad at kids for
being loud”
‘Love what's been going on with tweens and teens - ike to see this expand with
another locaton in North End. Safe place for kids/youth

“its atmosphere is very striking, | enjoy just being there honestly. It feels
friendly, warm, and honest. The people there don’t expect me to buy something,
‘or explain myselt for sitting down and reading a book.”

“| like that you can come read as many books as
you want and even take them home and bring
them back and get new ones!”
“| don't physically go to the library, so | can't
comment on anything within the physical location.
Having the online library is a huge strength,
especially given that it offers ebooks on loan.”

@Biz*cel

Pg. 132

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

“I really enjoyed having a workshop to help me get to the online
books. This is a great feature and ebooks are awesome. It is
another dimension of service.”

Like it's location and there's ample parking,

"Has beon very usetul asa parent of young citron, Would ike to use it as a research tool
made access to University level materia (| know few people use this any way so the
subscription could be on a peruse basis) - POF versions of scientiic American and other
journals)

“Safe and quiet spot - stil keeping the fee! of a library despite technology taking over.
‘Always looking to improve and bring new things in

“Great selection of books!”

Committed staff with an eye to the future of libraries. Excellent
children's programs and innovative ideas.
Great DVD library. Receives latest book releases quite quickly
Itoffers a number of services and programs fora wide range of interests
The Carnegie design

‘Access to knowledge banks and experienced staff that help find the right
information.

Over the years the library has transitioned to keep
up with modern needs of community and society.

Free rental on movies.

Friendly, Peaceful environment. Fair selection.
Passionate staff.

@Biz*cel

Pg. 133

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

2. “Weaknesses” Comments
‘There were 620 comments provided in response to the question: “What do you not like
about the Brockwille Library? What are the Library's weaknesses?”

Here is a sample of those comments:

‘Second floor space somehow needs to be reconfigured -it doesn't seem to
flow. | recognize that this is a challenge based on trying to meet various needs
of all patrons and having to work with a limited space.

My impression is that adut fiction and non-fiction book collections are declining
in selection and quality. Change for the sake of change seems to be the
‘current philosophy. Customer service at points other than service desks would
bbe helpful. BPL does not have a presence in the local media (print, radio) How
is BPL connecting with the community, reaching out? More planning and.
money is needed to serve the increasing number of senior citizens: these
people are educated, sophisticated, knowledgeable and will have to deal with
many issues: disablties, social exclusion, different needs for innovative
‘supportive technologies. They are a diverse group, at many different stages of
abilly/disabity. They need library staff who are knowledgeable, sensitive
Creative, good communicators.

Inadequate funding; currently appears that the City does not hold library in high

‘esteem ivalue it as an important service to the public.

The biggest challenge which | am sure if of no surprise is parking. Also when |

come fo use the computers (we do not have internet at home), there is always
‘a wait unless | do 15 minutes.

The hours. The fact that if a book/movie etc. is late, there are no calls to attempt to
‘remind you. { have looked at your stickers and interpreted to date incorrectly and had
late foes because of tor | have just forgotten all about a book or two due to my
schedule, and a reminder phone call would have been appreciated.

Empty shelves Aged decor

@Biz*cel

Pg. 134

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

The computers games are not really my age.
‘A book return at the main entrance would be mare convenient than finding out
the library is closed and having to run around the corner

why are all the real (paper) books disappearing?
‘The technology interface isa weakness in my opinion. The website is very
Useful to me, but is not as user friendly as it could be. Also, the typed sheets on
‘how to download ebooks don't match wha | see when I try to do it, and getting
into other library databases is not exactly as written,

Most of my contact with the library is over the phone and until | read
about the programs and services on this survey I had no idea that
you had them.
library could be a bit more visible in the
community.

| wish some of the programming for litle ones was outside of work hours to allow my
family to attend as well as a broader cross section of the community

Location is my biggest complaint even though | recognize the importance of itt the
‘downtown area especially as the downtown expands i's residential development with
the Tall Ships building etc. Therefore my wish list would be another branch in
Brockvllo along with more business related workshops offered in the afternoons.

Difficult to fee! like the library space is unified and it can be a bit visually
cluttered in places.

Needs more Blu Ray releases in their video library

| think the library should get someone to write a program to email people automatically
if they have an overdue book or a book due in two days. The database is there: the
‘program just needs to be writen. Libraries across Canada could use this. ALSO. | do
not lke thelist of audio books and ebooks included when | do a search. Please add a
‘check box to include these or not.

@Biz*cel

Pg. 135

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

| tied to register fora brary card when i lived in Elizabethtown and was told there
Would be a fee and never returned. think opening up the area and offer tree cards
would be wise or a least lower the fee.

| would use the library during the evenings or on weekends as | work -- hours

are sometimes not convenient and parking can be an issue
Cant pay fines via@ transter
Even though I prefer a real book, ebooks and internet are making
the library obsolete.

How we reinvent the library for so many people who use the in
‘everything?

net for

| do not like how the city does not realize what a true treasure the library is.

When you are a resident outside of Brockville you are not really made felt
welcome. Staff are sometimes more like watchdogs that customer service
orientated. They assume you should know where things are in the library.
Been probably twice in the last 4 years.

wish you had the museum day passes.
| do not ke it when the youth group that have their computers on that the youth
women get too loud even though there is a library staff in the room. They should be

firm with these young women and ask them if they could show a bit more respect for
those people who are trying to concentrate while on the computers.

‘Tho musty smell of old books in a poorly-ventilated overly-humid space. Also,
disagree with the trend in libraries to have coffee. The smell of coffee lingers and for
those who dont lke it, the smell is as bad as stale cigarettes - offensive. | don't
bolieve food and libraries mix. Food invites bugs which are not good forthe well-being
‘of books being loaned from house to house.

| wish they were open longer.

@Biz*cel

Pg. 136

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

decor is kind of blah, hiring a professional do consult
on colours and decor would be great.

The only time the library has not met my needs was when | wanted an audio book for
‘our drive on vacation and the return time was too shor!

Parking. Its amazing to me that Brackvile can support 2 hour fee parking in front of

stores but there is no free parking spots in front ofthe library. My mother recently got

2 $20 parking ticket while trying to take my 2 year old son toa library play program

at 2:0 in the morning. This IS and WILL be a barrier when trying to take him there in

the future tis very sad to me that we as a community can just free parking when

someone is spending money downtown but not when trying to educate our children,
The old computers need to be updated. Not alot of tables and chairs. Waiting

lists are too long for new books. The certain smell to it (old books).

you are geting rid of too many books. ke o hold books. and the shelves are too emply

I don't find staff particularly friendly or helpful or approachable...! find
many customers, of all ages, are kind of brushed off or slighted by staff.

| don't enjoy the fact that a good majority of people that use the library are not using it for book,
instead they are using for entertainment whichis a good thing that we have that option and the
possiblity 1 ent fms for tree. But kids now a days are not reading as much as they should
land this coming from a almost sixteen year old kd, ust by looking around to his peers alt of
them are not as educated as they could be. So! thnk the Public Library needs to stat pushing
the influence of reading and education to kids more!

like everything but it needs more computers.

| think there should be a cap on late fees, sometimes it is not possible to get to the
rary on certain days. Also when teens are in the building, | think there should be
staff waking around. Some are there for books etc, but others are there for something
todo.

There needs to be more fun things for teens.

‘The book selection is poor and dated. Gay and lesbian authors are non-existent in the
collection,

@Biz*cel

Pg. 137

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

3. “Use the Library More” Comments

More comfortable seating.

Information that's available Motivation
‘Need time and motivation to just go!

‘A quiet place to get away to with really comfortable chairs and coffee. Gas fre
place. A better home, away trom home. Plugs and internet so I can bring my
‘own laptop and surf Then I could discover the programs ofthe library.

‘The availability of e-books to download to my ereader.

‘Since we come in from Elizabethtown and usually try to run errands as well as visit

the library, it would be nice to have a place to get coffee and maybe chat with people

without alsturbing other patrons. Sor of like Chapters does. But where you'd put
such a cate | don't know.

If the library were open a little later on week days
and even weekends | know | would use it more.
| vist the library almost daly now. I would however visit more for author nights - moet

the author.

‘More programs for kids...f attendance is high, maybe another day is required

Wider range of talks, group meetings, book readings etc. Would enjoy
discussions on current affairs, politics etc.

At this time not possible - I work. But as a senior I can see myself - reading at the
[rary for some interaction with others, learningfplaying bridge and staying abreast of
‘now technologies with courses at the library. | expect it a great place to hang out
when { have more time.

Since | ve ouside of Brockvilo, find the fees to got a library card discouraging.
art magazines
greater awareness of what they have to offer

Ititwas closer to my home.

@Biz*cel

Pg. 138

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Larger business and personal development selection
BETTER PARKING
More speakers and movies that | would be interested in.

Friendlier staff, better hours, more comfy places to sit and read. ( these are my
daughters sentiments as well as mine)

lt there were a location in the North End

Most of the reading | do is for my book club. | am rarely able fo get my book
club selection at the Library because we read current books and although the
library almost always has @ copy of the book itis almost always out. like the
online search because | don't have to go there to check on availabilty. | have

kindle rather than a Kobo so | can't get my ebooks there either.

Longer lending period. My family and I go there to read books and use the computer
while we are there. :)
More comfortable chairs.

more current romance novels
Arcade room.
If they sold beaver tails.

If there were more advertisements, honestly | forgot
all about the Library.

Not sure We are actually physically going to the library less since we got our
KOBOs and are using ebook loan service. However we are reading more!

Lower fines for late books.

Just keep getting new releases
Free/lower cost membership
School based joint literacy initiatives.

Get new release books and change the decor.

@Biz*cel

Pg. 139

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

4. “Five to Ten Years” Comments
‘Vibrant, wel-unded, more stat.
Expanded and more technology
Modern, state of the art
‘Ahub for information from many sources
‘An enjoyable place to goto sit and eat and visit with tiends
Vitual envionment
Technologically advanced, a comfortable place for al ages to most as a

‘community hub

Hopefully, there will still be paper copies of newspapers, magazines, books. It is
‘great that there are e-readers available and computers, but these should not
replace print materials. | would like to see crafts like painting courses. | have
very much enjoyed card-making crafts.

‘Anip and swinging place to gol! Libraries have the connotation of being "stuf,
‘quiet, and BORING!" a quiet area is fine for those who want to read/study but our
lary has the space to serve both that as well as fun and laughter. Afterall
laughter is something we all sock out to feel better. I's ime to take the library into
the 21st century and alter its image - a breath of fresh air isthe drection Brockville
should go to in 5-10 years. | think we are already heading in that direction!

It could become an interactive school

Probably more interactive, perhaps using Skype to allow elderly or shut ins to
participate in book clubs or activities, such as knitting or any other club activites.

My vision is that BPL will continue to be a community hub and gathering place where
information is free of charge and accessible to every person. There is no other
‘organization quite lke a public library for including everyone regardless of income,
abilly, education, ethicireligious background. BPL will continue in its democratic role
{as a place where everyone has access to new information technologies and
knowledgeable staff who can connect people withthe information they need. I don't
foresee the end of the book for many years to come, for me certainly and especially
for children.

@Biz*cel

Pg. 140

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

If the library continues with its present outreach | think it will have
an even greater presence in our community - I see this library
already empowering the people of our community through various
open, safe, exciting, inviting and challenging programs and
services. | think its’ physical space may have to expand and while
that involves funding, | think there will be support for this.

BIGGER!

‘ot sure what he future is. Might have skipped a generation of techies’ and now need
to bring the toons back
| thnk the library has to become more f an event place with things going on
workshops, courses, otc. All ofthe information is available on lin - there is no
reason to visit for just Books or research materials ike betore. thnk it has to
become a community hub
ANYTHING YOU WANT IT TO BE. A VIBRANT PLACE THAT PROMOTES
LITERATURE AND EDUCATION.
the same
Well frankly, closed; because the books are just not there. And the city
government isnt providing any more money to expand the books and
services that should be offered

With most people having everything available online these days I'd say it would
have to be a technological database of material that once can type in speciffic
terms and get to resources quickly on line. Even remote access, perhaps for a
‘small research fee - stuff that is Brockville and area centric since everything
else is out there already.

Onin access to books worldwide. More online subscriptions. Worldwide seminars

‘avaiable atthe Library.

Please continue this wonderful public service accessible to all residents.

@Biz*cel

Pg. 141

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

5. “Other Comments” Comments

| appreciate this survey - | had really just forgotten about the library as | receive
1no information about it.| may pop down in the next week or so just fo have a
look around and see what's new.

Just remember that at heart a library is about books and sharing knowledge. Please
don't reduce the number of physical, paper books that you provide, in favour of
evanescent digital material

‘Only that | hope we always have a library for the future generation. This is something
We should not lose. It is one of the few places that young adults can go that moves at
‘a slower pace. They may even learn something while there and i afers a quiet time,
‘something many of them do not get anymore.
Perhaps The City of Brockville would consider re-vamping the parking lot
‘across from the library and build a multi-story building for parking on several
levels, with a restaurant and reading room atthe top. And in regards to
offsetting the cost of some programs | prefer to hold the original idea that
lbcary services are free and do not eliminate any sector of society to use them.
| would propose a network of small ibraries (public and schoo) also museums and
attraction, to combine resources and promote one another, share experiences. Work

with community groups (tary etc), and professional organizations outreach (PEO.
tc.) programs to cast a wide net. Perhaps that already happens.

ook forward to becoming a regular library user in Brockville
‘The Brockuille Public Library is an integral part of the Brockville community.
After moving out of the city to E-K I missed not having the no charge access to
the library. This survey has made me aware that if don't support it | might lose
it, Thank you. And a special thank you to the staff past and present who have
done so well with such limited funding.

| LOVE LIBRARIES!!!

| really appreciate that local students automatically receive library cards. It's very
helpful to have access to the resource section for assignments.

@Biz*cel

Pg. 142

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘The exterior of the building has undergone a huge face-lift. Who knew that a
beautiful and historic building hid behind the vines. The building is an asset to
downtown Brockville

“The public library isa long standing community resource of great historical value. |
‘would regret seeing it move in order to expand. | think the Library Board should
develop a long term plan to acquire adjoining properties for future expansion along
Bucll or George streets.

The Brockville Public Library is an important part of our City. Free access to internet
and reading materials i a great resource. Congratulations on a great faciity and
the empty shelves really bother me

Does the library offer automated reminders when a library book is due? If not,
that would be appreciated.

(Overall the library is one of my favourite places in Brockville, so I don't mean to come
‘off negative. There are some real issues with customer service that need addressing. |
‘can't speak forthe disabled but i there are definitely problems they should be top of
the list to be reciied. Thank you forall you provide tothe community at large.

Ive been a consumer of BPL services andIterary otferings for over 50 years: can remember
coming for Noddy books when the children's lary was in the basement inthe 1950s and my
Heong love of iterature and story, rue and imaginative was born there. | hope tha inthe
current climate of cutting culture that somehow the Library survives and thrives to continue
‘creating bibiopiles in all ther guises.
Just that I miss being able to use the library but I just cannot justify the cost for
the number of times | used it. Pay per use is another option that could be
beneficial to the library because then they would at least be getting some money
{from me whereas now they are getting no money from me.

[wish you well. I don't see a future unless the rary reinvents itself as a place to go
to find courses on how to study, how to search internet, become cioser to schools,
{get educational funding. Courses on financial literacy, not just some banker willing to
soll mutual funds. Get people lke Robert Gignac to come and provide talks. His cost
supported by local businessmen.

@Biz*cel

Pg. 143

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘Things have really improved - keep up the good work.

The kids use the library a lot more than I do, but i's great to be able
to send my kids there and not worry about their safety. We love our
Library staff!

Libraries shouldbe the last possible etuge forthe physical Book. When the power
{9008 out or is too expensive to charge all he book readers ipods atc Pysical books
wil come full ecle again. Old books contain History of our Givitzation.
Brockville is blessed with a small but dynamic brary. Keep up the good work!
| oud tke to stess the importance of biting projects for young ads aed tens. The lirary
isan intersting ad exciting place for tadlrs and chicken, as wellas a haven and resource
for adit, However, the mide ground is generally los, and those are some o the most
‘portant formative years. Catch the alenton ofthe young adi scene, and your ‘customers
wi be fo te
Regular art music and dance classes for children
and youth. Performance venues and open mic slam
poetry for our youth. A visiting centre for authors and
lecture series.

| am disappointed that my lsrary is allowed to treat people so poorly. It is supposed to
be a welcoming place in the community but every time I have entered with my family,
We are treated rudely and made feel as though we are interfering with their private
time. No one helps us, It is as i they are all hired for fe and can do whatever they
‘want with no consequence. We seldom come because of the service

Used to love it. Now Im constantly annoyed -no one's listening ether.
As schools in the area are eliminating libraries from
their buildings, the role of the public library is
becoming more prominent. It would be a shame if
future generations did not have this institution at
their disposal.

@Biz*cel

Pg. 144

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Knowing the staff is excited and willing to introduce new services
and programs, plus seeking feedback from the community shows
that there is great potential for moving forward. The books,
computers et al can all be here, but without people with passion and
caring, none of it matters.

Reverse cut back on hours. It is a "public" place and
should better reflect the current society where
businesses are generally open longer.

‘Sometimes there are young teenagers in the kids section and they can be crude
loud and also they smoke right infront ofthe doors setting a bad example for young
children,

Technology is great and dandy but there's nothing like curling up on the couch
with a real book. That's what all small children love (and need) so let's not
forget that.

Maybe library info in EMC and other tree newspapers. Weekly column with
new books, DVDs etc and events Le. NFB films.

| think our ibrary is a wondertul fact
enjoy taking my boys tothe library. | enjoy teaching them about books and to love
reading. | would hate to see the library disappear. Do you'can you advertise atthe
YMCA. | vist the Library depending on the seasons. | look atthe never-ending book
sale but dont usually purchase. Nothing that interests me. Didn't know some of the
resources existed! | would be willing to pay a nominal fee to oftset the cost of some
programs - realy depends on programs and iit fits my interest. The layout are library
works. | got to get books. I's nothing spectacular but does is'job.

Whoever thought up the young writers club on Wednesdays isthe type of thinker
‘needed to reach the young people of artistic bent. What about an art club too.

‘The staff there are amazing and always make us feel welcome. They ar
knowledgeable, friendly and very helpful

@Biz*cel

Pg. 145

<D BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Appendix B — Charts

Table 1: Geographic Breakdown of Active Library Members 2012

‘ative Members

Brockville East 1754
rr
Brockville North 2064
rr
Elizabethtown / Kitley Township 450
rr
Unknown 7

@Biz*cel

Pg. 146

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘Table 3: Household Income - All Respondents and Member Respondents

Household Respondents Respondents Library Tibrary
Income @ (%) Members in Members in
Bracket this Bracket this Bracket

° 4)
seas 193 a 103
sea00- a 1%
‘More than
$120,000

“Idon'tknow = 210 16% 128.0%
prefer not to 210 18% 144 68.6%

wiped

‘Table 4: Education - All Respondents and Member Respondents

Education Level Respondents Respondents Library Library
@ (%) Members Members
6)
Elementary Schoo! 237 18.0% 75 31.6%
(Grade 8
‘Some College or 168 12.8% 112 66.3%
Universi
‘Calle Diploma ae 2S
University 248 188% 7 Tbe
Undergraduate
=

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 147 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Table 5: Preferred Days to Visit the Library

Day "Yes" Indicated % of Responses
Indicating “Yes”
Monday 30.8%
Ady Re
eae 38.4%
ee ee
Frida 455, 34.4%
re
Holidays 203 15.8%
‘Table 6: Preferred Time of Day to Visit the Library
Time of Day "Yes" indicated % of Responses
‘Afternoon 897 67.7%
Table 7: Count of Comments Re: Preferred Times
‘Suggestion ‘Count of Comments
rs
‘Open longerilater Mondays 49
Closed on Monday 1
Ua
‘Open longerilater Saturday 6
‘Open earlier Satur 3
— ae
‘Open on holidays. 6

@Biz*cel

Pg. 148 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘Table 8: Number of Respondents Expressing Interest in Products and Services

—— Tie Say emg as TS
“Menon BvD Ennn) 122
ee =
Aatete wm)
Creede are Remerand we ttin es
‘bsetbortomm (coecten)
comnae ee eocuke 2
Decree
=o et eararce a
‘Mamie ee)
‘Nonfiction DVD (Adult) = Audiobooks (Children) 65
|eonouaig ae
‘Online Databases = ‘CDs (Children) 62
meen
oe on 2
Enron tarewng a7
‘Entertainment DVD (Children) = Microfilm: “a
(Pi eT
cS Ee “Conou er :
Eampmceing aT
Sty soe Se oe :
elutes ere TRE
= nme seween 2
Seamiseeen
ting ome So Woke _
oy

@Biz*cel

Pg. 149

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘Table 9: Transportation/Arrival Method

“Arrival Method Respondenis Respondents (%)

Bike 127 9.6%

Drive 973 735%

Online 113 35%

‘Table 10: Interest in Library Expansion to More Service Points

ses Respondents: Respondents (%)

No 461 37.8%
cIdon'tknow 88581 B%

Total 1220

‘Table 11: Media and Marketing Reach (Where do you hear about the Library?)

‘Warketing ‘Number

Newsletter 59

‘Other Websites i

‘Social Media 157

Never 254

‘Newspaper 293

Library Website 423

@Biz*cel

Pg. 150

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Table 12: Response to Recent Changes

Response Respondents Respondents
4)

‘The changes have been neither positive nor 152 12.3%
negative.

BT Be
‘What changes? I haven't noticed any 295, 23.8%
changes.
Tdontknow. 0 a
Total 1239
‘Table 19: The Library in Five to Ten Years
Feature ‘Approximate

Tall

Enjoyable gathering spot (community hub, partner, accessible, a 95
ES for all ie
don't know 7
‘Stay true to paper copiesimaterials 40
New programsiservices 31
‘Adapt to changes quickly 7

@Biz*cel

Pg. 151

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘Table 14: Motivation for Increased Library Use (.e. What would make you use
the Library more?)

Feature roximate Tal
ning 68
Extonded Hours 53
Better Location (f | lved close 52
More Activites Wrkshops/Events/Grouy 26
DVD Solecton 18

i
g
|

Kids Programs'Workshops/Events 15
Decor 14
rr rr
Customer Service'Statt 3

More Techn: Up

Meeting Rooms (more available, cheay

ransportation/Shuttie Service

|

3k Avalabilt

Motivation

‘CO/Music

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 152 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Table 15: Other Comments (Most frequent)

‘Comment ‘Approximate Tally

Nothing lft to 5 65
a

More Advertising and Outreach, Please 12
a

“Thank you for doing this 9
“ease Wake The brary More Teen Fiendy =

Foes are Too Expensive 4
“Please Improve Parking

Please improve Décor 4
—_

More Kids Programs 3
a

Please Keep the Books 3
a

Love the Large Print Books 2
“This Survey ConfusedMe

Please Keap Evolving 2

@Biz*cel

Pg. 153

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

‘Table 16: Youth Product/Service Interests and Preferences

Product se Count pespandente CO" Respondents
71g) ermag. (1419) tate

Books (Teer a o0.5%Ta 60.50%
Entertainment DVDs (Teen) 42 44% 78 31.30%
CComputersintrnet 38 40a ok 40.30%
Magazines (Teen) 2 % 65 27.90%
Books (Chicren) 24 255% 28 9.90%
NonFition DVDs (Teen) 22 Za 1370%
(0s (Teen) 21 229% a7 15.90%
Saati Areas Heading 21 20% 2 F 15.90%
Printing 21 220% I 25.20%
Entertainment DVDs (Adu) 19 202% 58 —«22.70%
Books (Adu) 19 202% 101 49.00%
Intro Training 18 191% a9 16.70%
Photocopying 7 wim 42 18.00%
None 16 70% 60 21.50%
Dise Repair “ wo% 18 550%
‘Auobooks (Teer) “4 ge 28 12.00%
Laminating 13 138% 22 940%
Enterainment DVDs

Exterinn 2 126% at 9.00%
Study Rooms 2 ee
CD ROMs (Teen) " um 47 7.30%
nine Holdenew Services 11 17%) ar 1.80%
Chidren's Computers 0 106% 8 3.40%
NonFiction DVDs (Chien 9 96% 2 0.90%
Inoribrary Loans 9 26% 4 6.00%
Non Fiction DVDs (Adu) 9 26% 20 850%
Cottee 9 96% 48 18.50%
Magazines (Children) 7 74% 3 1.30%
Neverending 800k Sale 7 74% 22 940%
nine Databases 7 74% 28 11.20%
‘Audiobooks (Chien) 6 6.4% 3 10%
Exhibit Space 6 6.4% 5 2.10%

@Biz*cel

Pg. 154

BROCKVILLE

PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT
Taos a a
a es 7
os at a
ee ed
CD RON Ad et a nn
a6
Book Cub Kis ne a es
36
corr ar Ties 3am Om
cD FOMs(cnie) Btw at,
Scanong rt a 3
emmys teat,
ttn : tet Odom
BamPrcoing etm,
rane : te 080m
debe uty a7
toang Rooms : tet 8a
‘Magaznes wat) ar
CNB Preauts oon 20%

@Biz*cel

BROCKVILLE
Pg. 155 PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Table 17: Youth Program/Event Interests

ProgramiEvent Count Percentage of 84 Count Percentage of 233

aa) egponnste| ata) Resonate
me

ST

ie

Sorestats Wome

Stine

suet re on

ee

one

@Biz*cel

Pg. 156

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Table 18 ~ Seniors’ Product/Service Interests

ProductService Count
Interibrary Loans 76
Onine Hold Renew Services 64
Magazines (Rei) 40
‘Audiobooks (Adit) 29

‘Computers/internet 24

Photocopying 22

‘Readers 20

Coffee 18

Recorder and Times Microfilm 14

Laminating 12

Exhibit Space 1

Books (Children) 10

Pedometers 10

‘Children's Computers 6

None 6

(CD ROMs (Adult)

iG
Es
a

Pg. 157

<D BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

NIB Products 3
NonFietion DVDs (Children) 3
Homobound Services 2
Dise Repair 1
Magazines (Chidren) 1
‘Scanning 1

‘Audiobooks (Teen) 0

‘CD ROMs (Teen) 0

3
3
H

@Biz*cel

Pg. 158

BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY FINAL REPORT

Table 19 ~ Seniors’ Program/Event Interests

FrawramiFvent Taunt
Sens Sco 2

fet Bock Ch ——
On venareps ——
Fontoeeyis
Serine :

a
a
Super Strays ;

Re

@Biz*cel

