City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes

5:30 PM - Tuesday, December 10, 2019
City Hall, Council Chambers

‘The Council meeting was called to order on Tuesday, December 10, 2019, at 5:30
PM, in the City Hall, Council Chambers, with the following present:

Members Mayor Jason Baker, Councillor Leigh Bursey, Councillor Jeff

Present: Earle, Councillor Jane Fullarton, Councillor Larry Journal,
Councillor Mike Kalivas, Councillor Nathalie Lavergne,
Councillor Cameron Wales, and Councillor Matt Wren

Nil.

Ryan Alllen, Financial Analyst, Lynda Ferguson, Director of
Finance, Janette Loveys, City Manager, Sandra MacDonald,
City Clerk, Robert Nolan, Director of Economic
Development, Peter Raabe, Director of Environmental
Services, Matt Wing, Financial Analyst, and Phil Wood,
Wastewater System Supervisor

MAYOR'S REMARKS.

Mayor Baker asked residents to help keep the fire hydrants clear this year by
removing snow when shoveling their driveways.

Mayor Baker stated that he had participated in a webinar by the International Joint
Commission who manage the waterways between the United States and Canada.
‘The webinar was for public officials about the current conditions of the St.
Lawrence River. The presentation will be distributed to municipalities. Once
received It will be made available to the public.

His Worship announced that Kelsey's Restaurant Staff will be at the River of Lights
Festival the next two Saturdays to collect non-perishable food items. He bestowed
congratulations to the Farmers Market Association and the Aquatarium who held
their first winter market this past weekend. The Market will continue for the next
two Saturdays at the Aquatarium. The 2020 New Year's Levy will be held at the
‘Aquatarium on New Year's Day.

DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST
Nil.

Page 1 of 10

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, December 10, 2019

ADOPTION OF COUNCIL MINUTES
Moved by: Councillor Bursey
THAT the minutes of the Council Meeting of November 19th and 26th, 2019 be
adopted and circulated as read.
CARRIED
CORRESPONDENCE, COMMUNICATIONS AND PETITIONS

Appointments to Boards and Committees
(Arena Advisory)

Moved by: Councillor Kalivas

THAT John Francis be added to the Arena Advisory Committee whose term
will expire November 15, 2023; and

THAT the necessary by-law be enacted.
CARRIED

DELEGATIONS
Nil.

STAFF REPORTS

2019-194-12
Community Improvement Plan Amendments

Moved by: Councillor Wales

THAT the Community Improvement Program-Downtown, as modified in
Attachment 1, be extended to December 31, 2025.

For: Mayor Baker, Councillor Wales, Councillor Bursey, Councillor
Fullarton, Councillor Journal, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor
Lavergne, and Councillor Wren
CARRIED 8-0 on a recorded vote

Page 2 of 10

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, December 10, 2019

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, RECREATION AND TOURISM COMMITTEE

Councillor J. Fullarton, Chair
Councillor M. Wren, J. Barabash and T. Barnes, Citizen Members
Meeting held December 3, 2019

EDRTC- CONSENT AGENDA

Moved by: Councillor Fullarton

THAT the following items, as listed on the Economic Development, Recreation
and Tourism Committee agenda are recommended to be passed by Consent
Agenda:

For: Mayor Baker, Councillor Bursey, Councillor Fullarton, Councillor
Journal, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor Lavergne, Councillor Wales,
and Councillor Wren
CARRIED 8-0 on a recorded vote

2019-183-12
Tourism Panel

THAT Economic Development, Recreation & Tourism Committee received
report 2019-183-12 - Tourism Panel for information.

2019-182-12
Municipal Accommodation Tax Disbursement Procedure Consultation

THAT the proposed procedure (Appendix A) be adopted for the
disbursement of MAT funds; and,

THAT MAT funds collected in the year be held in a reserve until paid out to
the qualifying entities; and

THAT the MAT disbursement procedure be review at end of first,
implementation year.

Page 3 of 10

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, December 10, 2019

3. 2019-184-12
Leeds and Grenville Small Business Enterprise Centre Contract

THAT Council authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to enter into an Ontario
Transfer Payment Agreement for SBEC Program (SBEC Core Initiative,
Starter Company Plus Imitative and Summer Company Initiative) with Her
Majesty the Queen in Right of Ontario as represented by the Ministry of
Economic Development, Job Creation and Trade; and

THAT staff work with the Leeds and Grenville Small Business Enterprise
Centre to establish processes to ensure that the reserves are managed and
are being used to further the needs of entrepreneurs and businesses.

EDRTC - REGULAR AGENDA
Nil.

FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE
Councillor L. Journal, Chair

Councillors J. Earle and N. Lavergne, C. Drake, Citizen Member
Meeting held on December 4, 2019

FAC - CONSENT AGENDA
Moved by: Councillor Journal
THAT the following items, as listed on the Finance and Administration
Committee agenda are recommended by the Committee to be passed by
Consent Agenda:
For: Mayor Baker, Councillor Bursey, Councillor Fullarton, Councillor
Journal, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor Lavergne, Councillor Wales,

and Councillor Wren
CARRIED 8-0 on a recorded vote

Page 4 of 10

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, December 10, 2019

2019-179-12
Temporary Borrowing By-law

THAT Council approve a Temporary Borrowing By-Law to borrow funds
(temporary working capital), as may be required for the City’s operations,
of up to $5,000,000 for the year 2020; and

THAT the Mayor and Treasurer be authorized to execute the By-law.

2019-180-12
2020 Interim Tax Levy and Establishment

THAT Council authorize the City to impose its 2020 interim tax levy with a
due date of February 28", 2020; and

THAT Council establish the due date of August 28th, 2020 for the second
and final tax levy for 2020; and

THAT the necessary by-law be enacted.

2019-185-12
October 2019 Variance Report

THAT Council receives the Interim Variance Report for the period ended
October 31st, 2019 for information purposes.

FAC - REGULAR AGENDA

Nil.

2020 BUDGET

Page 5 of 10

2019-188-12
2020 Water and Wastewater Operating Budget

Moved by: Councillor Journal

THAT Council approve the 2020 Water Operating Budget with total
expenses of $4,204,608, ($4,275,608 including the incremental item) and;

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, December 10, 2019

THAT Council approve the 2020 Wastewater Operating Budget with total
expenses of $5,461,634 and;

THAT Council approve the 2020 Water and Wastewater User Fees listed in
the User Fee Schedule 1 (Attachment 1) and;

‘THAT Council approve the Water and Wastewater Rates applicable to the
2020 Water and Wastewater Rate Scenario 1 (Attachment 2) and;

‘THAT Council approve the incremental item of two temporary Water
Systems Operators (Attachment 3) to perform regulatory municipal and
private hydrant testing, with a budgeted expense of $71,000 and add this,
amount to the Water operating expenses above and;

THAT the necessary by-laws be enacted.

For: Mayor Baker, Councillor Bursey, Councillor Earle, Councillor
Fullarton, Councillor Journal, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor
Lavergne, Councillor Wales, and Councillor Wren
CARRIED 9-0 on a recorded vote

LL. Ferguson provided an overview of the 2020 Water and Wastewater Operating
Budget.

Councillor Earle entered the meeting (5:58 pm.)

Councillor Journal asked questions regarding the allocation of other department
wages to the water and wastewater operating budget. J. Loveys explained that
there is an allocation from other departments to the budget but it will be further
reviewed (for accuracy) in 2020. Mayor Baker explained that it is difficult for
Council to look at budgets when the allocations continue to change.

Councillor Earle noted that other municipalities have the fire hydrants inspected by
the fire department and asked if this had been considered rather than hiring of two
part-time staff. L. Ferguson noted this will require review.

Councillor Journal asked about calculating a 10-year average for the contribution
to the capital to avoid funding swings. L Ferguson will review

Councillor Kalivas asked about the financial impact for high volume water users by
moving from variable to fixed rates. L. Ferguson will provide this information.

Page 6 of 10

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, December 10, 2019

Councillor Journal asked for a reserve forecast without any capital contribution
from reserve but increase to rates.

The meeting recess at 6:53 pm.

The meeting reconvened at 7:00 pm.

‘COMMUNITY AWARDS OF RECOGNITION

Page 7 of 10

Highland Golf Course
City Council

Highland Golf Course was presented a Community Award in special
recognition of the valuable community contributions they have made since
1964. Mayor Baker noted that the owners were not able to attend tonight.

Brockville Rowing Club
City Council

Brockville Rowing Club was presented a Community Award in special
recognition of the 125th Anniversary of the Club and acknowledging
dedicated service and valuable contributions to our community. K. Rowan,
President, Brockville Rowing Club accepted the award.

Every Kid in Our Community
Councillor Fullarton

Every Kid in Our Community was presented a Community Award by
Councillor Fullarton for outstanding support of children and youth.
Coordinator Marg Fancy, Co- Chairs Loreen Crosbie and Jane Hess
accepted the award.

Stingers
Councillor Journal

Stingers was presented a Community Award by Councillor Journal for
providing youth opportunities through activities and programming. Andrew
Walford-Davis and Chantelle Pepin, Owners accepted the award.

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, December 10, 2019

10.

Page 8 of 10

Frontenac Arch Biosphere Network
Councillor Wales

Frontenac Arch Biosphere Network was presented a Community Award by
Councillor Wales in recognition of leadership in sustainability and
conservation. Erik Wang, Melling Segal, Julie Servant accepted the award.

Royal Canadian Legion Branch 96
Councillor Kalivas

Royal Canadian Legion Branch 96 was presented a Community Award by
Councillor Kalivas for ongoing contributions for the betterment of Brockville
and continued recognition of Canadian Veterans. The award was presented
to Ralph McMullen, President RCL 96 and Alex Burton, Sergeant at Arms.

Brockville Culture Days
Councillor Lavergne

Brockville Culture Days was presented a Community Award by Councillor
Lavergne for contributions promoting diversity, culture and arts. The award
was presented to Russ Disotell.

Brockville Lions Music Festival
Councillor Wren

Brockville Lions Music Festival was presented a Community Award by
Councillor Wren for enriching musical education and talent since 1951.
Norm Kearney accepted the award on behalf of the Brockville Lions Club.

DIFA Foundation
Councillor Bursey

Do It For Aaron (DIFA) Foundation was presented a Community Award by
Councillor Bursey in recognition of the support of students through musical
education and experience. The award was presented to Stevenson family.

Dan Thompson
Mayor Jason Baker

Dan Thompson was presented a Community Award by Mayor Baker in
recognition of ongoing commitment to the betterment of Brockville.

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, December 10, 2019

11. Jeff Severson
Mayor Baker

Jeff Severson was presented a Community Award by Mayor Baker in
recognition of ongoing commitment to the betterment of Brockville.

12. David and Anne Beatty
Councillor Earle

David and Anne Beatty were presented a Community Award by Councillor
Earle for exemplary community contributions and outstanding ongoing
support.

13. Recognition of Councillor Jeff Earle

Mayor Baker spoke of the quiet ways that Councillor Earle and his family
support this community, their regard for the Brockville Arts Centre. The
family foundation recently provided funds for new exterior lights at the
Arts Centre. Mayor Baker thanked Councillor Earle and his family for their
support and dedication to the community.

NEW BUSINESS - REPORT FROM MEMBERS OF COUNCIL
Nil.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS.
Nil.

EMERGENCY BUSINESS.
Nil.

BY-LAWS

090-2019 A By-law to Authorize the Appointment of Municipal Law Enforcement
Officers and Peace Officers as it Applies to the Private Property at
Brockville General Hospital

Page 9 of 10

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, December 10, 2019

READING OF THE BYLAWS.

Moved by: Councillor Kalivas
Seconded by: Councillor Lavergne

THAT By-law Numbered 090-2019 be introduced and the same be now read a
first, second and third time, signed by the Mayor and Clerk, sealed with the Seal
of the Corporation and be recorded.

CARRIED

CONFIRMATORY BYLAW

Moved by: Councillor Kalivas
Seconded by: Councillor Lavergne

THAT By-law Number 091-2019 to confirm the Proceedings of Council at its
meeting held on December 10, 2019 be read a first, second and third time,
signed by the Mayor and Clerk, sealed with the Seal of the Corporation and be
recorded.

CARRIED

MAYOR'S ANNOUNCEMENTS

Mayor Baker on behalf of City Council wished all the citizens of Brockville a safe
and happy Holiday Season.

MEDIA QUESTION PERIOD
ADJOURNMENT

Moved by: Councillor Kalivas
Seconded by: Councillor Lavergne

THAT Council adjourn its proceedings until the next regular meeting scheduled
for January 14, 2020.
CARRIED

The meeting adjourned at 8:05 pm.

Mayor City Clerk

Page 10 of 10

