fal City of Brockville

BROCKVILLE Council Meeting
EY OFTHE 1e0D SLANDS Tuesday, November 08, 2016, 6:30 pm
Council Minutes City Hall, Council Chambers

Council Members Present:
Mayor D. Henderson
Councillor J. Baker
Councillor T. Blanchard
Councillor L. Bursey
Councillor P. Deery
Councillor J. Earle

Councillor J. Fullarton
Councillor M. Kalivas
Councillor D. LeSueur

Stat

Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Ms,
Ms,
Ms,
Mr.
Mr.
Ms,
Mr.

ZOPOzMroNe

. Casselman, City Manager

Cosgrove, Director of Operations

. Dick, Director of Corporate Services
. Ferguson, Manager of Finance

. MacDonald, City Clerk (Recording Secretary)
|. Pascoe Merkley, Director of Planning

. Pigeon, Fire Chief

Raabe, Director of Environmental Services
Ward, Financial Analyst

|. Wing, Financial Analyst

MOTION TO MOVE INTO CLOSED SESSION (6:00 PM)

Moved by: Councillor Fullarton
Seconded by: Councillor LeSueur

THAT pursuant to Municipal Act, 2001, Section 239 Sub. 2 (c), Council resolve
itself into the Committee of the Whole, In Camera, closed to the public to
consider:

Page 1 of 6

1. a proposed or pending acquisition or disposition of land by the municipality
or local board;

CARRIED

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, November 08, 2016

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE IN CAMERA

Moved by: Councillor Blanchard
Seconded by: Councillor Dery

‘THAT Council rise from Committee of the Whole, In Camera and the Chairman
report that all recommendations adopted in Committee of the Whole, In Camera,
be adopted.

CARRIED
MAYOR'S REMARKS
Nil.
DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST
Nil.
ADOPTION OF COUNCIL MINUTES

Moved by: Councillor Kalivas

THAT the minutes of the Council Meeting of October 25, 2016 and November 1,
2016 be adopted and circulated as read.

CARRIED
CORRESPONDENCE, COMMUNICATIONS AND PETITIONS
1. Shop Local Week

(Downtown Brockville)

Moved by: Councillor Fullarton

THAT Council do hereby proclaim December Sth, 2016 to December 11th,
2016 as "Shop Local Week" in the City of Brockville.

CARRIED

Page 2 of 6

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, November 08, 2016

BUDGET

1.

Page 3 of 6

Lighting Project
Brockville Railway Tunnel Committee

Moved by: Councillor LeSueur

WHEREAS the Tunnel Committee can pay for the lighting and finish the
Tunnel; and

WHEREAS the City of Brockville is not being requested to fund anymore
money or risk, as the bridge financing is only on pledges from fundraising;
and

‘THAT Council increase the budgeted amount from $2,500,000 to
$3,974,496 and allow the Tunnel Committee to raise such funds; and

THAT Council allows the Tunnel Committee through the City of Brockville
to increase the amount being borrowed based on pledges from fundraising.

CARRIED
Moved by: Councillor LeSueur

THAT Council authorize the sole sourcing of the lighting project from
Philips Electrical.

CARRIED

Mr. Angelo Miceli, Philips made a presentation to Council regarding the
tunnel lighting project.

Mr. Cosgrove provided an overview of the request from the Tunnel
Committee for the lighting. He stated that the committee was seeking
Council's decision tonight for the awarding of the project. The project
would require that Council approve the purchase from a sole source.

Mayor Henderson confirmed with Mr. Dick that this will not affect the 2017
budget.

Councillor Earle asked for the on-going operating cost of the lighting.
Councillor LeSueur indicated that local people have come forward to do the
programming (after the initial setup by Phillips).

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, November 08, 2016

Page 4 of 6

Councillor Kalivas asked about the bridge financing and what amount of
funding could be left for Council to cover. Councillor LeSueur indicated that
the project will only spend the amount of funds raised. Mayor Henderson
cautioned that there is always a risk that a pledge may not be paid.

Councillor Blanchard asked why we could not wait until the monies are
received before it is spent. Councillor LeSueur explained that the lights
need to be manufactured so they need to be done now. Councillor
Blanchard noted that this is not his vision for the tunnel and that he does
not see that Brockville is in the same league as the other projects shown
by Philips tonight.

Councillor Earle noted several projects where fundraising initiatives were
undertaken but the funds were not realized. This lighting project does not

have as much of an impact as the other projects shown by Philips because
the other structures were above ground, not where you need to go into the
structure to see the lights.

Councillor Baker noted that he likes Phase 1 of the project and likes this
enhancement to the project. He asked for clarify on funding; cash on hand,
cash spent to date amount pledged for Phase 1. Councillor LeSueur
confirmed that $2.8 million in pledges and cash with $630,000 being in
cash for Phase 1.

Councillor Deery asked if if this would be eligible for energy rebates.
Capital Budget
Fleet

Councillor Deery asked about extending the life of the non-essential
vehicles by two years. Mr. Cosgrove explained the life cycle process that is
in place including the moving of first life vehicles to second life. Mayor
Henderson asked for an analysis of life cycles from Mr. Cosgrove.

Councillor Baker inquired about the lighting of the winter rink at Memorial
hill and the potential of turning the lights from the parking lat to the rink
area. He also noted that the bright aluminium colour of the recently
installed players benches caused some glaring and noted a large gap on
top seat of the benches that should be looked at.

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, November 08, 2016

Councillor Earle asked what was included as "preventive maintenanc
respect to the Fire Station roof and how long would the roof last.

with

Council also requested details on the library outdoor furnishings and the
security camera upgrade (prices and arguments).

Mr. Cosgrove was requested to provide further information regarding the
replacement of kitchen equipment at Memorial Centre versus the service
hours being provide by the canteen operator. Mr. Cosgrove clarified that
the kitchen equipment is for the hall not the canteen under contract. He
also reported that the Health Unit requires that the unit be replaced.

BY-LAWS

085-2016 A By-law to Amend Bylaw Number 076-2016 Being a Bylaw to
authorize the Corporation of the City of Brockville to enter into an
agreement with Brockville Solar Inc. for a natural habitat protection
lease

086-2016 By-law to Authorize the Execution of a Lease Agreement with Her
Majesty the Queen, in right of Canada, represented herein by the
Minister of Fisheries and Oceans for the Management and Operation
of the Brockville Harbour

087-2016 A By-law to Amend By-law 119-89 Being a Bylaw to Regulate Parking
to restrict parking on a portion on the east side of Kensington
Parkway

READING OF THE BYLAWS.

Moved by: Councillor Baker
Seconded by: Councillor Bursey

‘THAT By-laws Numbered 085-2016 to 087-2016 be introduced and the same be
now read a first, second and third time, signed by the Mayor and Clerk, sealed
with the Seal of the Corporation and be recorded.

CARRIED

Page 5 of 6

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, November 08, 2016

CONFIRMATORY BYLAW.

Moved by: Councillor Baker
Seconded by: Councillor Bursey

‘THAT By-law Number 088-2016 to confirm the Proceedings of Council at its

meeting held on November 8, 2016 be read a first, second and third time, signed

by the Mayor and Clerk, sealed with the Seal of the Corporation and be recorded
CARRIED

MAYOR'S ANNOUNCEMENTS

Nil.

MEDIA QUESTION PERIOD

ADJOURNMENT

Moved by: Councillor Baker
Seconded by: Councillor Bursey

THAT Council adjourn its proceedings until the next meeting scheduled for
November 15, 2016.

CARRIED

The meeting adjourned at 9:06 pm.

Mayor City Clerk

Page 6 of 6

