a City of Brockville

BROCKVILLE Council Meeting
{Rv OF TE TeGO SLANE Tuesday, June 14, 2011, 6:00 pm
Council Minutes City Hall, Council Chambers
Roll Gall

‘Council Members:
Mayor D. Henderson
Councillor J. Baker
Councillor D. Beatty
Councillor L. Bursey
Councillor J, Fullarton
Councillor L. Journal
Councillor M. Kalivas
Councillor D. LeSueur
Councillor M. McFall

Absent:
Councillor J. Earle

Staff:
Mr. J. Baker, Director of Human Resources

Mr. B. Casselman, City Manager

Mr. C. Cosgrove, Director of Operations

Ms. D. Cyr, Director of Finance

Mr. H. Jones, Fire Chief

Ms. D, Deputy City Clerk (Recording Secretary)
Ms. M. Pascoe Merkley, Director of Planning

Mr. D. Paul, Director of Economic Development
Mr. P. Raabe, Director of Environmental Services

Others:
Mr. Ron Zajac, Recorder and Times

MOTION TO MOVE INTO CLOSED SESSION (6:00 P.

Moved by: Councillor Kalivas.

‘THAT pursuant to Municipal Act, 2001, Section 239 Sub. 2 (c) & (d), Council resolve
itself into the Committee of the Whole, In Camera, closed to the public to consider:

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, June 14, 2011 Page 2

1. @ proposed or pending acquisition or disposition of land by the municipality or
local board:
2. labour relations or employee negotiations:
CARRIED
REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE IN CAMERA
Moved by: Councillor Kalivas.

THAT Couneil rise from Committee of the Whole, In Camera and the Chairman report
that all recommendations adopted in Committee of the Whole, In Camera, be adopted.

CARRIED
MAYOR'S REMARKS

Ni

DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST

Ni

[ADOPTION OF COUNCIL MINUTES

Moved by: Couneilor Baker

THAT the minutes of the Council Meeting of May 24th, 2011 and the Special Council
Meeting May 31, 2011 be adopted and circulated as read.

CARRIED

MOTION TO MOVE INTO COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE COUNCIL

Moved by: Councillor McFall
Seconded by: Councillor Fullarton

THAT we adjourn and meet as Committee of the Whole Council, with the Mayor in the
Chair.

CARRIED

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, June 14, 2011 Page 3

DELEGATIONS

1

Rotary Park Revitalization Update:
Brent Collet from the Rotary Park Revitalization Committee presented a video on
the progress of the project.

Ms. Sharon Jordan provided a brief update on the athletic field project and
indicated that the Committee is working with St. Lawrence College to find a
location.

Mr. Colin Williams presented a PowerPoint presentation to Council regarding the
adoption of the new Official Plan

Economic Development Advisory Team provided update on their endeavors and
initiatives. Mr. Don Heron, Chair reported on the progress of four initiatives:

1) Manufacturing Taskforce

Jag Chawla reported on the retention and expansion undertakings of the
‘Taskforce. On the retention side, three meetings are held per year with ten
industry leaders. Notes are compared and challenges as well as ideas are
discussed. The next meeting is in July.

‘The expansion undertakings of the taskforce involve a list of Ambassadors
who are industry leaders who are committed to expanding industry within the
City of Brockville, Performance indicators such as assessment growth,
‘employment growth and number of investors that have committed are
endeavours of the manufacturing taskforce, ensuring that the strategy
matches the City's economic plan.

li) Life Style in Brockville Taskforce

David Keenleyside reported on this initiative with community and
‘communication being the focus with the goal of surpassing 24 000 population
and encouraging people to come to Brockville, Previous focus has been on
print ads. The life style in Brockville initiative would like to focus on faces and
families of Brockville. Early ideas may be the publishing of a book featuring
local artists.

iil) Waterfront Taskforce

Lucas Pearson described the vision of the waterfront and downtown filled with
entertainment, restaurants and storefronts. Tourism aspect with many events,
being offered; Ideas include a historic waterfront village in Downtown

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, June 14, 2011 Page 4

Brockville with a public and private partnership. Six communities were
‘examined as comparators and best practices are being developed. Funding
and investors are integral to the projects.

Iv) University Taskforce

ii

i)

iy)

Marjory Loveys gave an update on the Satellite Campus project with respect
to four recent undertakings:

Meeting in Orillia that took place in the beginning of June to review Orillia’
‘success with Lakehead University

Provincial policies for satellite campuses have changed. The direction the
province is taking with respect to municipalities is
+ Encouraging the municipality and university to work with the
province early
+ Municipality and university to put together proposals that work with
the region in which they will be located:
+ Promote underserviced areas;
+ University partnership with colleges
+ Low infrastructure costs.

Early ideas for programs include: Eco-tourism (commerce & environment),
mental health, arts & culture

‘The Taskforce had two separate sessions with Queen's University. A
preliminary discussion took place with D. Wolf, Principal of Queen's and a
‘separate meeting with S. Clark, the VP of Research regarding
manufacturing technology. Although very preliminary in nature, the goal is
to collect and analyze data on the local postsecondary market and lifelong
learning with respect to “Centres of Excellence". The taskforce welcomes
‘comments on the proposed Centres of Excellence with a feasibility study
to take place eventually.

Itis noted that Councillors Journal and Beatty are both on the University
‘Taskforce. Mr. D. Paul noted the importance of youth retention and in the
‘example of Orilia, 80% of graduates from the Lakehead Campus were
from the area,

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, June 14, 2011 Page 5

MOTION
Moved: Councillor Bursey

THAT Council receive for information the correspondence related to the Official Plan
{rom the following persons:

Mr. Colin Williams.
Eastern Independent Communicatons
Mrs. Cecilia Medcalt

CARRIED

‘STAFF REPORTS

2011-064-06
‘Adoption of the New Official Plan

Ms. Pascoe Merkley reviewed the lengthy process that was undertaken in order to
develop the new Official Plan. The next steps are the adoption of the by-law by Council
circulation of the document to the various provincial ministries for comment, and
‘approval by the MMAH.

Councillor Journal requested a recorded vote.
Moved by: Councillor Kalivas
THAT the new City of Brockville Official Plan dated June 14, 2011 as prepared by MMM

Group Limited be adopted and filed with the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Housing
for approval

Recorded Vote: Yes. Councilors Baker, Beatty, Bursey, Earle
Fullarton, Journal, Kalivas, LeSueur, McFall
‘and Mayor Henderson 10
No 0

CARRIED ON A VOTE OF 10 TO 0
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING COMMITTEE

Councilor M. Kalivas, Chair Councillor J. Baker, Councillor D. Beatty, Councillor J
Earle, Meeting held June 7th, 2011

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, June 14, 2011 Page 6

EDP - CONSENT AGENDA

Moved by: Councillor McFall
Seconded by Councillor Kalivas

‘THAT the following items, as listed on the Economic Development and Planning
‘Committee agenda are recommended by the Economic Development and Planning
Committee to be passed by Consent Agenda.

CARRIED
2011-061-06

‘Community Improvement Plans

Program Extension

Moved by: Councillor Beatty

‘THAT the programs available under the Community Improvement Plan for Downtown

Brockville and City of Brockville Brownfields Community Improvement Plan be extended
{for a period of 6 months from the date of expiry, being June 30, 2011

‘CARRIED
MOTION TO RETURN TO COUNCIL
Moved by: Couneillor McFall
THAT we rever from Committee of the Whole Counel, to Council
‘CARRIED

ADOPTION OF REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE COUNCIL

Moved by: Councillor McFall
Seconded by: Councillor Fullarton

THAT the report of the Committee of the Whole Council be adopted and that the
necessary actions or by-laws be enacted

CARRIED

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, June 14, 2011 Page 7

BY-LAWS.

055-2011 By-law to Set Tax Ratios for the City of Brockville for the Year 2011

056-2011 By-law to Adopt the 2011 Capping Option for the Protected Property
Classes.

057-2011 By-law to Adopt the New Official Plan.
CARRIED
BYLAWS FIRST AND SECOND READING

Moved by: Councillor McFall
Seconded by: Councillor Fullarton

‘THAT By-laws Numbered 055-2011 to 057-2011 be introduced and the same be now
read a first and second time.

CARRIED

BYLAWS THIRD READING

Moved by: Councillor McFall
Seconded by: Councillor Fullarton

‘THAT By-laws Numbered 055-2011 to 057-2011 be now read a third time, signed by the
Mayor and Clerk, sealed with the Seal of the Corporation and be recorded.

CARRIED

CONFIRMATORY BYLAW FIRST AND SECOND READING

Moved by: Councillor McFall
Seconded by: Councillor Fullarton

‘THAT By-law Number 058-2011 to confirm the Proceedings of Council at its meeting
held on June 14th, 2011 be read a first and second time.

CARRIED

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, June 14, 2011 Page 8

CONFIRMATORY BYLAW THIRD READING

Moved by: Councillor McFall
Seconded by: Councillor Fullarton

‘THAT By-law Number 058-2011 to confirm the Proceedings of Council at its meeting
held on June 14, 2011 be now read a third time, signed by the Mayor and Clerk, sealed
with the Seal of the Corporation and be recorded.

‘CARRIED
MAYOR'S ANNOUNCEMENTS
Island Breakfast being held on June 29 ~ 30", 2011
Big Brothers Big Sisters Leeds & Grenville - Kemplvill Fibfest is this weekend,
June 17 & 18, 2011
Congratulations to Councilor Bursey, the recipient of Ontario Volunteer Services Award.

Canada Day Ceremony in Brockville, Councillors and public are invited to attend,

ADJOURNMENT

Moved by: Councillor McFall
Seconded by: Councillor Fullarton

THAT Council adjourn its proceedings until the next regular meeting scheduled for June
28th, 2011
CARRIED

The meeting adjourned at 9:02 p.m.

Mayor Gily Clerk

June 13, 2014

‘The City of Brockville
1 King Street West

Victoria Building

Brockville, Ontario K6V 3P5

Attention: Mayor David Henderson
Dear Sir.

RE: Revitalization of Rotary Perk

‘Thank you for allowing us the opportunity to provide Council with an update on the
Revitalization of Rotary Park June 14, 2011

In addition to our update, our committee would like to make the following requests to
Counei

41) That Council agrees that the use of the City’s contribution of $180,000 to the
Rotary Park Revitalization project does not have to be restricted to the
construction of @ splash pad, on the understanding thatthe project will include a
splash pad of equal or greater value.

2) That Council gives the Rotary Perk Revitalization Committee approval under
Clause 6.5 (b) of the purchasing by-law to award work on the basis of in-kind
<donations by contractors or suppliers that reduce the cost of project components.

Thank you.
Yours truly,

ie ip

W. Brent Collett
Chair, Rotary Park Revitalization

ec: Sandra Seal (via email)
Conal Cosgrove (via email)

Citizens Brockville

Mission Statement

Our mission is to encourage civic betterment in
and around Brockville through the promotion
of good and transparent governance, good
planning, prudent fiscal management, and
citizen involvement in civic affairs.

http://citizensbrockville.ca/


Adoption of the Official Plan for the
City of Brockville

Citizens Brockville

Recommendation to adopt, despite the
remaining problems


Issues to be Discussed

1. Terms of the Contract

2. Permissive nature of the Plan

3. 30 metre Waterfront Rule

4. Affordable Housing — a first step

5. Northern Stewart Boulevard


Contract with the Consultant 1

It is expected that there will be a high degree

of interaction between the Planning C
Director of Planning throughout the p

onsultant and
roject. In

conjunction with the Planning Consultant, the

Director of Planning and the Technica
Committee will make all necessary ad
the scope and approach of the project

Steering
jjustments to
. The

Technical Steering Committee will review the drafts
prepared by the Consultant and provide input for
revisions. The Technical Steering Committee will
meet with the Consultant and set direction at all

decision points throughout the project.


Contract with the Consultant 2

The Technical Steering Committee will review
the drafts prepared by the Consultant and
provide input for revisions.

The purpose in drawing this to Council's attention is to
suggest that any future consultancy contract require
that the consultant report to Council with
commentary from staff.

S25


Permissive Nature of Plan

The word “May” is used too frequently

“Shall” is used but often weakened by its use
in such phrases as “shall encourage”.

We would have preferred a clearer statement
of intent.


30 metre rule 1

We were delighted to see that the Consultant had
proposed a clear statement about public access to
the Waterfront.

We regret that the consultant's suggested 30 m rule
is to be replaced by a vague statement because
“there might be sites where it would be difficult

to apply


30 metre rule 2

2 There appears to be two locations where
there might be some difficulty with this rule:

2 The Rowing Club site, which will likely be
redeveloped in the coming years.

2 The Smarts Foundry Machine Shop
building would be enhanced if it were
converted to a residence.

> Please see the pictures that follow.


Rowing Club


Smarts Foundry Machine Shop


Housing affordable to low and
middle income people

The Official Plan has made considerable
progress in this area.

The 2005 PPS 1.4.3 contains:

a) establishing and implementing minimum targets for the provision of
housing which is affordable to low and moderate income households
e) establishing development standards for residential intensification,
redevelopment and new residential development which minimize the

cost of housing and facilitate compact form, while maintaining
appropriate levels of public health and safety

It should be noted that the PPS requires no
subsidy from the public purse.


Stewart Blvd, North of Laurier

We support the position taken by the
consultant and the City's Technical Steering
Committee that the land west of Stewart
Blvd. Remain as part of the Urban Reserve.

We wish to see planned growth - Development
in the right place and at the right time, when
the need is demonstrated.


Citizens Brockville

Mission Statement

Our mission is to encourage civic betterment in
and around Brockville through the promotion
of good and transparent governance, good
planning, prudent fiscal management, and
citizen involvement in civic affairs.

http://citizensbrockville.ca/


EASTERN
INDEPENDENT ClitonT. White, Present,
‘TELECOMMUNICATIONS LTD. slitwieaeten

June 13, 2011

Sanda Seale
City of Brockville Clerk
1 King Street West
Brockville, Ontario
Kev 3P5

Subject: The Official Plan forthe City of Brockville

‘To: Clerk of the City of Brockville

‘Thank you for a copy of the final version of the subject plan as forwarded on June 8,
2011 and the opportunity to provide the following input and recommendations

‘As noted in our leer of May 31, 2011, our concer is with Section 4.6.44 (Stewart
Boulevard corridor).

11 was of particular interest to learn at the April 30 meeting, that Council, when voting
unanimously in September to include the north end (Stewart Boulevard, Highway 29) as
‘an area of development in the Official Plan, issued a direction to develop a strategic
plan to move the process forward. However, with all due respect, it appears that a
strategic plan to move the process forward has not been developed but rather a
recommendation to add conditions to future development which appear to be unrealistic
and restrictive. ‘Simply adding conditions to future development does not appear to be a
strategic plan and in our opinion will do nothing to support existing businesses oF to
‘encourage new development.

‘The issue of sustainability should be given serious concer as it relates to the area in
question. Restrictive conditions impacting future growth and development could serve to
drive business out of the area and discourage others fom establishing new businesses.
‘The Highway 29 corridor isan important development area for the City of Brockville and
should not be taken for granted. Growth and development is paramount for
sustainability.

Economie development and job creation is an important objective for the City in
particular over the next five (5) years and not sometime in the future. I is inthis venue
that we respectfully submit the following recommendations for consideration as part of a
strategic plan for the development of the Highway 29 corridor.

Recommendations fo

ie Plan

1 Review and update the Engineering study completed approximately 8 10 10 years ago
by the City, in liaison with the Township of Elizabethtown, to extend services on
Highway 29 to the City limits on Centennial Road and Victoria Road and back to
Highway 29, Estimate current costs to extend these services.

2. Reseurch the possibility of cost sharing for the provision of these services with the
City of Brockville, Township of Elizabethtown-Kitley, current business owners,
potential developers, and new business start-ups.

43. Develop a plan to address local infrastructure needs including the above as part of the
Federation of Canadian Municipalities and for application to the Provincial and
Federal Governments in anticipation of funds becoming available in the foreseeable
future to support or subsidize this initiative along with other needs.

4, At this time, give serious consideration to rezoning all of the north end of Stewart
Boulevard (East & West) to encourage commercial development in the area,

5, In the event thatthe City does not have the resources to implement the strategie plan
at this time, consider establishing a committee and asking for volunteers to move this
plan forward

‘Thank you for the opportunity of providing this information and best wishes for the
sucessful conclusion ofthis important plan.

Sincerely

Concerned businessmen and landowners of Brockville North (Highway 29 & Stewart
Boulevard):

Clift White, landowner
Stan Hall, Highway Pentecostal Church
Jack Henderson, The Flower Shop

Paul Vee

tea, Coombe Custom Homes
Amold Dixon, Kia of Brockville

Mike Veenstra, SV Homes

ALPhillps, Garden World

Mike MeParlan, MeParlan Auto Sales

ce: Lorraine Bagnell; Maureen Pascoe Merkley

‘Maureen Pascoe Merisey

“Tuesday, Jone 16,2011 11:48 AM

Daphne Livingstone

‘Bob Casseiman

FW: Agenda item 17.4(6) - Council Meeting June 14 - Oficial Plan ~
Lawrence Park

Foundation Appendix A pat

pectic concem ~ St

Daphne, another item of correspondence respecting the Official Plan report on tonight's meeting agenda,

‘M. Maureen Pascoe Merkley, MCIP, RPP
Director of Planning

ity of Brockville

1 King Street West, P.O. Box 5000

Brockville, ON KBV 7A5

Tol. (613) 342-8772 oxt 444

ax (619) 498.2788

‘Sent: June 13, 2011 9:26 PM
‘To: Dave Henderson; MeFall, Mary Jean; ‘Mary Jean’; David G. LeSueur; Busey, Leigh; ‘Ligh’; Beaty, David; "David;

Journal, Lary; Larry; Dave Henderson; Dave Henderson; Jef Earl; Jeff Earle; Fullerton, Jane; ane’ Jason Baker;
Sason Baker; Councilor Mike Kallvas; Councllor Mike Kalas

‘Ce: Sandra Seale; Maureen Pascoe Merisey

‘Subject: RE: Agenda Item 17.4(d)- Counc Meeting June 14 - Oil Pan - specific concern «St. Lawrence Park

Agenda tem 17.4(4) - Council Meeting Tuesday June 14
‘Mayor Henderson and Councilors:

You wil ikely approve the Official Plan (OP) tomorrow, June 14, as it stands. There is much to commend the proposed
plan, supported by the Provincial Policy Statement of 2005 and public engagement. My remarks to Counclin the one
Public Statutory Meeting, on Sept 15 2010, on behalf of another group stl stand today. Ladd my thanks for delaying
‘adoption. The specific concern below is expressed on my own behalf, though I know many other citizens share it.

‘The ultimate way the OP gets interpreted lies largely with you, and tweaking words at this point may not be productive.
However, Ido wish to draw your attention to Section 3.5.3.1 kems 33 and 34 dealing with St. Lawrence Park.

implore you to interpret the new broader official use of this park in the sprit ofthe actual pubic input thatthe city
received during 2008 and 2009. (Some raw data i attached.) You'll recall that residents passionately valued the park for
its natural setting and cultural heritage, and generally do not support development and more commercalization of it.
‘This ia plece ofthe waterfront that many residents wish to use for quieter scenic onyger-fed recreation,

‘A Master Plan forthe park is mentioned, but! fear it will come to the public after it's already executed. In just two years
Ive witnessed the incremental arrival of more scuba charter boats, work docks, new parking lots and drive ways along,
with the loss of woodland, trees and access tothe public dock. What's next?

| understand commercial water taxis to the islands are being added to tourist offerings all summer (Seaway Vision). This
seems a good way for people to better appreciate our UNESCO Biosphere status. This appreciation will attract economic
development, as sustainable tourism and green industry continue to grow.

However, the base location for power boat operations such as this would be better in the central waterfront. The taxi
service would augment the services, facilities, amenities and other atractlons of the vibrant downtown core.
twill become part of the campus of attractions around the MOC. The public made other suggestions that would
better express theie values forthe park, suchas improved kayaking and swimming facilites.

In your future elated decisions please interpret the new OP to better protect the natural setting ofthe park Let's
"develop" this unique amenity as a prized cultura heritage landscape for future generations.

Regards,
Celia Medeait

Brockville
865-8214

This message (and any associated fles) is intended only for the use of the individual or enbly to which tis addressed and
may contain information that is confident, subject to copyright or constitutes a trade secret Ifyou are not the intended
recipient. you are hereby noted that any dissemination, copying or cistnbuton of this message, or files associated with
‘his message, is sctly prohibited. I you have received his message in eor, please notiy The City of Brockvile
immediately by replying tothe message and deleting I fom your computer. Messages sent to and from us may be
monitored

BROCKVILLE
official plan

Appendix A

Public Input from Community Workshops



Brockville Official Pian Public Workshop Outcom From FebrusryMarch 2000

FOREWORD

‘These lists ae the recorded outcomes of the City of Brockile Oficial Plan Community Workshops hed in February
‘and March of 2008. To this have boon added the highlights ofthe correspondence received parting othe Ofical
Pian inate.

This is an open and transparent process and no fiterng or edting has been performed. The style ofthe
correspondence recoived was, understandably, lengthier than the style ofthe Workshop comments, £0 we have
tied to extract the essence from the correspondence that pertains tothe work ofthis project,

(ver 1.200 inputs were recorded inthis process, covering both Valves and Ideas. The Consuting Team wishes to
‘express thir appreciation and admiration forth interest and etort appiod bythe Communty of Brock inthis
‘process. Simlar enthusiasm in assisting in the execution ofthe resulting plans over time wil have a positive effect,

‘We have organized the listings as folows, for ease of reviow

First, VALUES and IDEAS are separated
‘Thon, the stings aro soparatod bythe Warkshop in which they were record or rom Correspondence
‘There wore several Groups n the Workshop Break-Out Sessions and we have recorded the outcomes
accordingly excopt in Workshop #3 where the comments have been organized by Area. The Partcpants trom
‘each Group are not recorded, nor are the names ofthe Correspondents. However, when joking for your
particular inout, you may recognize other tems from the Group in which you participated. Asa reminder:

Workshop #1 - February 28 The Kick-off Session - held atthe Memorial Centre Community Hal
Workshop #2 - March 3 - The Socioeconomic Development Session - held at the Wedgewood
Workshop #9 - March 4 ~The Waterront Sesion - eld atthe Brockile Rowing Cub

Whether you wore a Participant ora Correspondent, oi you are just now becoming involved in his paces,
PLEASE DO SCRUTINIZE the listings and let us know whether you fel that your Values an Ideas are represented

{1 not, ploase E-Mail or fax or mail itn.
Financial implications

tt shouldbe noted that some of the VALUES expressed imply a restraint on certain economic development
<drections; ths has opporunity-cost implications, which must be bore by the Communty

‘Silay, many ofthe IDEAS may have significant costs associatod with thm, which mu
‘The Sources must bo eithr PUBLIC or PRIVATE FUNDS or both

30 be funded.

(Our Next Steps
‘The Constants wil next review the entire st of outcomes an evolve Themes from the Values.

1ot29

Brockville Official Plan Public Workshop Outcomes

VALUES

‘Values trom Workshop #1 - Group 1

Boundaries -hertage and itoryizo
‘Acoss to wateont-puble access

axes ardgroen spaces ot sommercalzed

Moot demoryaohic needs commun hoa care erograms|
Martin publ acess to watron de lo conmerealzaten,
Enuronantal seve

Sostan resources win the community

(Good planing of tacit wihin to ty

‘he balance obusewess wih Quay oe

Public acess to war sopregaton of and use

Marian acess to watorfort and prkard
Preseason ot envrcomer an hrtage

Locatlon,leaton lation

Resident! dorty

Pest Steet reviatzason

mance oaks als

Etna Sversty

‘Values trom Workshop #1 - Group 2

stage (arceactue ison)
Wiakabie community sale, Brock Tra)

iy ine courery

Green canopy oars, St. Lawrence, open space)
Blockhovse Istand and i Lawrence Park
Peta artage ook

LUngue arse of ult rvionent

ase downtows

Brolviteslands- pbc

Beancevohe'es vs pedestrians
Fe van cossns

Whole ety beauited (res, towers)

Ursan design focused on harmony and blancs
Opportunt or a

Young tamiles working at goods

Vivant cowrsown and wateront

Pde in sopearance a homes anébusrasses
Diverse popuston- al ages

Nonortsoun aise

ery green coneurity

‘Values from Workshop #1 - Group 3

‘More tarepareney on major decison (MOC) -puble put
Overrepsates

‘Bulanced use of watertont rationalize, pedestians, oursm, pats)
Propo standards

Pasting south of rock wih rk to An Contre

‘Balanced popuation

From FebruaryMarch 2008

2of29

Brockville Official Pian Public Workshop Outcomes From FebruaryMarch 2008

Values trom Workshop #1 - Group 4

uote neoss to watecort lane use and sustainbily
Waterton

Heritage and story
Green ena wang Vas

“raraporaton trafic
Mare public usage of publ space (6.9. opening up shots)
‘Soy of publ space hang

‘ecommedatig adverse popuston trough difererce residences
‘Gren seac (waking paths, pubic spaces)

‘Voosaton, pardons and termr's mart

Breathing clan ai

aed meted comrurty -erwronmontaly concious
‘ilancesutwoun conmorcal weer? and puble access
estage of watertrort, preservation

‘Morin ofthe bul natural ervrcrmert esto senso

‘Man Seat ook ike Ors Morea and watewont one ig park
"Lia 1001" - people in he sectserioyng tersohes

Wet martaned, eaan protected walertor ccesst0

Values trom Workshop #1 - Group 5

Hertage bukings, een space, watertont acess
Pamwrays-eneneion

Convent access to everyting dvs tz.
Blohovse Issn ont change
Degradaton of ee population (canopy) private and pbc
{Lok of balance of quay ney in tome of are phycal standards

Natal beauty of ae

‘Sim ofconmurty - row needs o accommodate accoss

"Big pleura acsossed n panning (physical wrasbucure,clmate change, peak ot ene)
Balanced deveopment between rth and south of ty

‘rate doa (ey cutin wo by 40" more routes for norh-outh and eastwest access)
‘esos bo wateron

Ireovale pubic arspom (paving, vec Wate, water, bkos any mode of ansoortaten)
Borer novsing

‘Sistanabio sooty

‘Solari water qoneation wthn or incase eroxmey 1 ty

‘Tein, busting Gowtown

Integrated poopie endy med ren space and bulge
Wataron ana downtown Ing

Highrae an the watetont conosod

‘More reds dose by(igherpopdation deny)

30129

Brockville Official Plan Public Workshop Outcomes From Februanerch 2000

Values trom Workshop #1 - Group 6

Maia architectural intgity of what we have now
Ours snoulsbe forthe reser pa for oicets rove tour atracbon
‘tern pass ad iar avaable pulse

ver oy, towntaoing commun

‘Sustainability fhe populon forthe cal economy
Downtown «mx rosdenta ar business

‘ening ard heght esction (8 stores)

‘Groom seace comowing meres are causing cortiet

‘Uso of parks notte eonmorsalzes

‘ae demogracics

‘Beau dowrtown, vor Sans make Pings uoly

‘Dango of oing how atactve te tye

Programs, recseaton and acts for Serio

Envroraia and greening = LEED

Pe in ing and worming Roe

Values trom Workshop #1 - Group 7

‘ateront, downtown ang parks
Compact size ofc, unspoiled parks and watrtront, grandeur of Coutouse Averuo
Proumiy of desinatons and good rae om

sing amy = schoo! system

‘Saley, more eceaton and development oreth

Ungue ears, hisor, as, raza! beat, community iniacy,comemuntypasson and ivaWverent ot potessonals (2. as)
Nata seting and public acess tot

‘Acces large ces eno age oy si, ous, recreation and shopping

vor, acces lands, acces to watersports

‘Conny of ry, poopie and tecabos

‘Atracion of young pele

Develop nor end cdr faction

Toomany bts

se use of care erent modes of ransportion eyeing)

Ppulaten neath verss ought tobe a concer facies

Paring probien equres solton

rercomng conserve atitude

Flxbity and reception of new eas

‘ay te (ving, a tay valves, vbvart)

‘Sale ana happy place ve ezeaion sale lace)

Beauifu iy, een flowers, ran downown,puble acces, develop of downtown,
Vesartcommunty roth be

‘An development and retain youth and uniqueness of watetront, ee.

‘rans atom, acess facies

Maran econome stats fr sleyconcoms

Maran dowrtowrs itor and etharcorert poten

(Cecbrte eas discussed today -balace of grow

“Teo many poops - too much growth

Fayre sour story

40f29

Brockville Official Pian Public Workshop Outcomes From FebruaryMarch 2008

Values trom Workshop #2 - Group 1

‘Dont Want Untiondy society or commenty
Dent Want Lasko al business

Dont Want Prt puble sector employment

Dot Want Urearing Commas

(Dont Wart- Lied pubic Wateront access

‘om Want Moa low wages abe

Dont Want Poor quality education

(Dont Want Lack of panning

Dont Want Last grr space onthe Watertont

Dont Want-Lor sigh of and forget Broce hertage and histo
Dent Want Loteeng downtown

Dont Want Flac early the curert economie 8s

Dont Wan-Low paying jobs

Dont Wart-Empy dowrtown

Dont Want Real to develop outs of downtown

Dont Want Uneathy industry unneaty fr fe enveonment)
Dent Want Lack of enirormerta stowadship

Dont Want Pooty waned Wornorce

Dent Want Socal hut to people

‘Dont Want Damage the erirormert

Dont Want Cree’

Dont Want Unemployment

Dont Want Ponsod mer

Dent Want Ponsod war

Dont Want Garbage

Dont Want Unnaintaned publ propery

Dont Want Tate congestion

Dont Want Above average cost of ving

Dont Want Budgeted dots

‘Dont Want Fue ax payers payg of he debt incu day
Dont Want Disconnected pube acces (physcal)

Dent Want Known on as ‘Senore Domai

Dont Want Known ony as a Manufaclurrg Conte!

Det WantLase ho easing sma town char

Dont Wart Noise palason

Dont Want-Sound poluon

Dont Want View poon

‘Dont Want Lose the existing downtown seine
‘ent Want Hereage bulsirgs ton down

Dent Want Povey

Dont Went Lick of education an ating

‘Dont Want You with nttng to 30

‘Dont Weet Yur that eave snd de ra ren

Dent Want A naow range of age demographic

(Dont Want High secon Watarort

‘Dont Waet Park Soto ran un down Hom the Wack to King Soot
Dont Wart More denstcaton downtown

(Dont Wet Lack oferta youth

‘Dont Want Untrereycommurity

Dont Want Lanai ght, sme, poiion

Dat Want Ungerer

Dont Want Uneaten
‘Dont Want Sopration of noth and south Brockwle
Dont Wart Nowe pout O wan wastes
Dont Want Chemical plats poled lanéscape
Dont Want Uelean ny

Dont Want Junk andra in creeks

Dont Want Congcton
Dent WanLose the beauty of Broce

50129

Brockvile Official Plan Public Workshop Outcomes From FebruayMarch 2009

ont WantLose downtown stores
Dent Want Lose what we nave

‘Dent Wart Separate Uptown: and downtown -naad work ogetar
Dt Want por lve of health care

‘Dont Want isaton rom surouneng Conemuntos

Dent Want A awied oy

Dnt Want ekance sally on automobile fr ransporaton

emt Weet Urban sprawt

Dont Want-An econemy buf upon ow paying bs

Dont WaetYoah gorge

Dent Want Crack houses

Dont Want Liter

Dom WartAn economy depending upon ae indus aint sector
Dom Want An aconeny tha fal behing echrecgy

Dont Waa Exgotion of ver islands

Domt Want Hig axes

Dont Want Give up on ndustial isto

Dont Want Devacton rom te natural beauty parks

Dont WantLosng St Lawrence Caloge

Dit Want Per ves af preventve heath

Values trom Workshop #2 - Group 2

‘ont Want Polting indus
‘Dnt Want Poulan grow to fast
Dont Want Alggs noe eb Dasha

Dart Want Slay servcos oneted employment

Dent Want Lose the mage a the Cy

Dont Went Lack of acest fo facies

Det Want A pvatses Waterton

‘Dont Want Restictedbultrg height on Watoront
Dont Want Uniiormed ard uneducated deco regarding constucton and accessible those wth deabies
Dont Wart Not beay he wha Cy

Dont Want-More young pecs lesng

Dont Want No houses bul upon smal ots

Dont Waet Youn wit ug issues

Dont Want Derelict houses

Dont Want Deval ty

Dont Want Homelosenees

Dont Wart Lack of siardards as we plan and move ahead
Dent Want Soparatod Boch’ nodh and sou),

Dont Wan-A ding downtown core

Dont Want Loss of Block House sand

Dont Want Loss of pubic Waterton access

‘rt Want Detaarating oie owes

Dnt Ware An uly

‘Dont Wart No raw construction south of Water Steet?
‘rt Wart Ne isephone ines on Water Steet.

Dont Want Lose Gy owned sland

Dont Want Lose St Lawence Par

Dt Want Lose parang ncowntown core

‘ot Want Lack of programs for ageing populaton

Dart Want Loss of mescal facies as te popuon soe
Dont Waet Lose St Lawrence Park

Dam Waat Loge ars Conte

Dont WantLose Movie These

Dom Weet Ser Reusing treo out

(Dont Want Accessible Rousing forced out

Dont Waet Lose ot Tran

Dom Waet Loss of Para Trarait

Dont Wart Prvataed hosp

60129

Brockville Official Pian Public Workshop Outcomes

ont WantA downtown vou of residars
Dont WantA Senor Citizens ony Cty

Dont Want Dsscouragement of any industry

Dont Want Highor ates

Dot Want Lora the tax base

Dont Want Dscouragement of migrants

Dont Want Discouragemen of Tourism

‘ot Want iscouragement of aordatie housing
Dent Want Net slelpredomnarsymisonave suis’
Dont Want Clos: mindod te charge

Dont Want-Lose sight of econome reay

Dont Want New a develepmont ough Cy

Dont WantLoss of educton sytem aca chooks

Values from Workshop #2 - Group 3

‘Dont Want Lose he heritage ook of downtown
Dont Want Depa dometown |

‘Dont WantLoee St Lawrence Cotege

Dont Want Lase our Sbty

Dont Want Maer encoactenent on Watertort

Dont Wart Vacant ntl Busse

Dont Wart Vacant conmercal bss

‘Dent Want Slagnaton

Dt Want Preectonsm

Dont Want Creel

‘ont Want-Loss of preset nasiucture- must havea backup lan
Sonanaalty

Dont Want L088 of silod workore

‘ont Want-Lase Tune! Bay to Commercial or pivale sete

‘Dont Want Conreral develgoment or erorsos onan parklands
‘Dont Westar sons gh quality ony

Dont WantLoee oferty

‘Dont Want Loss of ars programs and esas

Dont Want Loss of sled workorce

‘Dont Want Loss a the rer vie fom King Soot

Dont Want Tat buldegs (10 stories ae above) no closer an SO motes rom er
Dont Want Fewer pot holes

Dont Want No diveresubsies

(Dont Want No autorabiee on Blockhouse-pedestians ony

Dont Want Mere latiood sorters,

Dont Want Hier ce

‘ent Want Exc focus on reteamer communty

nit Want-Lack of ansparency m spending of axes - Counc
‘Dont Want Reprobates

Values from Workshop #2 - Group 4

‘Doet Waet No nomelessness, whatver hat kas
‘Dont Want No vry age noose on sat ls
(Dnt Waet'Me Jobs sy

(Dont Wert inadequate heath serveas

‘Dom Wantnsdequate education system
‘Dom Want Unbalanesd domogranies

Dont Want Paring on parands

Dont Want Waterton ove <evelomert
ort Want Lined acces or lacrstents
Dont Want Came: lac of slay

‘Dont Want Poorlooking neghbouhoods
Dont Want Lack of strate vba em 401

From FebruaryMarch 2008

70129

Brockville Official Pan Public Workshop Outcomes From Fetrusrhach 2000

‘oot Want Ar potas
Dont Want Noise potion

‘Dont Want Water potuton

‘Dont Want Viva olution

‘Dont Want Ales vee dowrtown old stuctrs need care

Dont WantA stagnant communty

Dom Want Naysayers

Dont Want Prone

Dont Want change

Dont Want Lage omety pring ts (and ignring people waking tough
Dont Want Tours on buses loedng lw Paying tut svi aconamy

‘Dont Want Noe South apt acroxs 40

Dont Want Vacant upper floors downtown

Dont Want Vacant, srawing conmorcal area

Dont Want Sip mat developments, creating ale congestion

Dont Want Above-geund parking ts uo

‘prt Want People nou of cys whan they are waking (especialy whan with walker as an aid)
‘Dont Want Meath of people eis too jobs avaiable

‘ent Want teracy

‘Det Want Too mary entrances to busy sets rate planing

‘Dont Want A iy sow 0 acapt to charge

‘Dont Want Unmanaged grow

‘Dont Want Abandoned zoning plan sick oho pan

‘Dont Want Lack of batance in inet focus

(Dont Want Lack of atane i development focus

‘ort Want autmobie atc

‘Dont Want Dityrashy appearance along King Steet

Dont Want Poor 401 sage that doesnot encourage pele to oxpore Brocka
Dont Want Not planning fo" ape change = re oe ard wid Be Comeruney

8ot29

Brockville Official Pian Public Workshop Outcomes From FebruaryMarch 2008

Workshop #3 - Values from the Waterfront Area

‘Say same (roids, mixosuse)
[Emance park, beautfeaton

Keep hertage

[Emance val system signs. (mlt-use for walkers, clr, rolerbladg,consauoussytam and wth, eyeing access,
rezjeng contaners needed)

‘Manas to tr encroachment on to water- dont expand to0 ta

[Umt neg of balding - martan caret tales bul height fr raw bukings and renovatons

Cosi vew city tom wate ad and

Space between bulcngs to not obetuct ve

Expanded seasonal boating = ot vitor existing water bts)
‘Mor putt acca anspocatont lard

‘Do not alow commercial 1 expand to reedontal
‘Now consrccuon south ot Water Stost

No parking lots south of Wate Strost

Ie raw corer aceviy south of Water Stet
Ne changes tobe rowng ub ints prosent locaton
Leave Hardy Park, improve andeeape.
Notonts on Bocthouse

Defined paring areas

Fae use lor podesban wa wate

Nantain parklars ano pubte use

Stek to 2011 bya hag eatcson

Marian nertaga'Teelin pow consvucon

Hort cool

Manta as much goon space

Higher donsty north of Water

Hertage bulgs tom down

Improve ighing

imorove presence of pole

imorove safoty

Divdod eo 2 sections norh-souh at Water Sect
Wiest of boardwalk, ro develoment

Femove congeston

Trai - WatorSveet wdones

‘report ey pon dat oad owner

‘Seah of King for enteranment

asking garage on comer of Water and Markt Square
Medium densty wth now bukings, maed-use commarcalresentl no bung higher an 3 storeys south of Water Steet
Pras acess ower

‘as more groenary

Beterpotce presence

sans tobe protected and useabie
Decking space tor tzens
Congestion: Water Steet east John Soot
Loto pb acess

Nowe uve commorciaroscenal

Vary nego ulings to Create toes, ot wal eect
Consistent dosgn standards conser hertage
Bury hye lines in tunnel, downtown area

90129

Brockville Official Pian Public Workshop Outcomes From February/March 2000

Water Sveet consier fo eno-way set
‘and access (ble water tas)

Denon deine for buldngs on King Steet

Nee resort! downtown

Erlree bas for propery owners to maintain buksings
Residoreal righ density

Ne conmarcatzaton aS. Lawrence Pare

Protiz rosea! use of parks

No now resident south of Water Set

‘Groon posal unis

Mor eee

Max 4 soroys

Maintain ston coro

etage home marian esting

Ne above-gtound sowcos

(ase tong = dasefrondy

(Green Bema “recy units

(Ongoing maltonancs (ble wastvoors on King Sest opan pubic)
ertage sve signs no grandatering

Nether border to Water Set

Groen open space (south of Water Steet)

Pb aoees to water

‘brant seo sveets, commercial

Bocthowseis to remain publ (ad a Backhouse, open he tunel a an atraction-2.g. vain de)
‘aioss each new bug fom al elvators ode vaw om ee
Restoaton of sore long Bal’ Cok
Reduce goose popuiason

Remove parking fom Bocknause lane

iter Sree pag ot needs morovenent-r0eng
Watertont comma shoud Nav aratural ere
Increase residential enaty
Blcknouse reman public

Manian geen space

Cente of pus access

‘Action! pag that meets hertage lok
Disconbe vencls on Blcknouse Ian

Water Seat housing geting od - replace’? King Steet as wol (Tim Horns
‘Access water, aay during conesucton
Salty features along was fot pat

Isa need be protcted

Nhu contdore must be protected vow
Encourage small projects Betane’Porh Sect resol
Designated swerming areas ate

vor wart

Keop the pak

‘Mor dvs parking rea

Wasting aoa

‘Aagie parking atop of Carton Park

Sausquo

Nor ress
Sty ema sng

ieee
Cemeeteeer wn cowrtown acomectee
treme oak

Iwas secon presence

a 100129

Brockville Oficial Plan Public Workshop Outcomes ‘From FebruayMarch 2009

Workshop #3 - Values from the Downtown Area

‘aks ara
‘hed a ow re

Improve aesietcs

dot este vein project slong creek

Irerease night of butdngs gradual Hom wate to noch
St Lawrence Parke unique =eop natural so
‘so-yar vison?

‘New bung can be crate to lok Ske od balding
Residoreal afordaie hovang

(Oe rotary in pay ned to mata

‘Reiger! pasa

Fesidercalhertage Bere

Upkaop of buna

hers of Rousing

Fesidoral- oop hectag ool

{andoras accourabe fr empty stares and adhere o design uideines
‘Accessiie, bare all ommorcal

Packing shoul be created nor o King

‘low gace evel escent

Mor poe presence

Keep stoves high end destraton

LEED cores bulge
Courthouse Avenue besutcaont Broad Srest

Ceebestane seewabs

ess concrete - more ck

‘A pubte signs riage theme incuding posts

Solar panelsattto out ol ew

Proven amano

Resdontal above grade

nes beter use

Beter paring batina facades

Improve ear bigs

Encourage pbc tart onthe downtown stots (9. Ota’ Market Aa)
Encourage Use ol the upper foors of commercial bukangs on King Set - remove reductonn taxes for vacances.
Restoraton of King Steet basing

ove wakays south ot King

Protec rertage Bullngs

Irerase granny 3 downtowns

Nan oor comarca

Improved vope oor essen

Pedestian ony -King Stet

Mize comma sizaook

Fur ot what to do with lage vacant commercial locations

Fonus on he back ofbulngsfaorg wer

Imeroved propery etardarcs|

(lean butting sppearance

Wabi only on King Steet

Imerove backs and abeys

ave rosdortal

Pesosan ort acoss

11 of 29

Brockville Offical Plan Public Workshop Outcomes

Historie aldertal
Propet standards

Noro rexcorts

Mora escent

Nor escorts

Revtalze notage homes

Koop feonat

Betor propery standards (yard appearance)
Fesidorsal moved

High dont are tale bung

Ireoased scent censty

More greeny ross
Mariain and mprove Cournouse Green

Upan design gucetnes

Harmonious growth - sympathetic to hisry ard hertage

Police walk beat krow conemurity

Resident toes

‘Arde hoosing

Wal property (Wal Church © goo soir resontiiparking high density
Residortal, sional od churches,

Preserve charactor

Mar vessors

Inston (host BC)

Nor neath cae sovcos

Nore instusona and aduatonal uses

Workshop #3 - Values from St. Laurence Park and the Islands

‘Green -rcycing units
Keep pute

Ne development

Witer tao

Paring a St Lawrorce Pak -inrase

Inwatorfont- dean up Moring or bull parking away rom amp
Uatparkbe park no commercia

Mantain St Lanonce Park. youth erhancemerts)
‘Montrnleance oe

‘Need management lan
‘Accu housing fecad ut
Fecroaional- ight use

Frage envionment

ve instal nature

Conta access pret

Move beach back to were sed 0 be

ater wanepon to the lla for rasatlputie

‘cess aod us of watt for goer use (6 kayakers, canoes)
Fetore Bue's Crock ois iin natural Deauy

Islands enous bo for reader Yoo rag for tourists

Pant bushes hat wil eed ard eter beds and animals

‘Go back orga lan or St, Lawance Park kom 20 yours ago
Marta as open space

‘Sra jowal- we must rect

Ireroasog chasers acts

Regulate vers: more corr! of acy

Neprate busmess

Keep pute

Book camping stn advance

Ineease ving access

From FebruaryMarch 2009

120129

Brockville Official Pian Public Workshop Outcomes From FebruaryMarch 2008

Workshop #3 - General Values

No space noes
‘Atactve signage

Proper marianod facades

ght sma present sours (10-12 storeys max)

(Gean environment

People nancy ara active

Brockilans sigpotg Brocvillans|

‘Broad East ertage and gen

‘cad West - bul ad nerpaced

‘Qtr conmorcial signs

From King Stat be ale to s00 sun olcng ofS Lawrence Rivet

More Weagewocd pe deveoprents (te approach - no confit)

‘cess las for rant owas

‘Downtown west- expand cnsstnt looks fo buns in west en wih ret of downtown
Goats fy

Preserve facades

Densty behind

Cenenuovs comacton

ble boardwak

Nise use -rescantalcommerciat

oerty markers arcways

Preserve view tom King Spee noo south

‘Mott lvel parang win rade changes

Pama (eying, podesttan

(Grean megerneration t hertage

‘uasng highs not hgher an we have now: desgnatad areas fo apecto use
Gott be vibra to vars yout vateron) whe maintain hetage

Wierd hertage’ misused at shoud nt maan este?

‘Absentee landows - encourage thm 1060 something

130129

Brockville Official Plan Public Workshop Outcomes From FebruaryMarch 2009

Values from Correspondence Received

Acisan St Lawrence Fiver
‘toad manufacturing Base

debe forvout

iMarging te vates gsterecin te ret forum eto te Strategie Plan aleady dated

Lec welrpayeg obs

Broil becomes a green, sustainable cy, osented away om the CO2 emiing vii.

‘The need io tect our water. St Lawrence Park and allo landsnluéng Bockouse tom major development,
‘Having te Sat Plan cive the OP. Instead of be oer way arOurd, wih a cow ealecive vision fo 2031

Dont Want-Discontinoous green spaces, especal ang he wateront Wom Cantaen Park to BYE

Prespersy
‘Nest cy which ocuses onto wong os tzens, such key areas as feed, housing, energy anspor, hea care,
ars, shosong, socuty, spots ae pak faces.

Manage ard preserve slancs due  ecclgialsonsvy

‘No commercial development onthe warn which shou be preserved forte enjoyment tc axpayers an vistors ~ S60
<ocumert on watoront development rom Prosts for Pubic Places (www 55a)

‘Ale 1o sro around Bockhousolaand ona bisiny summer aarnoon and have great wews tthe Fiver Cy Hal, The Court

House, and especialy to stoples of cur many curenes..

St Lawrence Park ta toasure

‘Alga curfer’courel dessions beta wh the expressed colocbve valves, stating raw

[Dont Want Have motorboat and PWC around St Lawrence Par, lea Hom Sketon Ilan o naw sep on wos oof at
(ead tecommuricasone

Esser also ae ertarpriss for wealth craton and employment. especialy siled enployent

‘Ravar e Cancian Charter Setlnae Toss

Creating best! seyine fom beh the watotant ané King St. trough atop architectural urban design fm.

Envrormerialy storable

be Cy ands aces atract ches, hats good, bu the Cty should ot be subssing facies, such as Owing, Camping or
‘a Dacovery Core merly to aac wor

‘Martainhertago facades

‘nen comes fo feeding, thing and sheeting my fay, nthing compares othe major reales (ig box) ne north ond
when i omes to allerabity ang cole. Thats a value | hd dat

Festict cowniewn buking Magis 3 saves, sou o King St, and no new buldings south of Water St.

‘Dont Want nt pe accent watertot or various Uses

Sse

‘As fr as posse, the plan shuld esabish measurable objectives and an aval reporting system 4 hat cizen can ook
back and assess the poaress.

Manan er esdertal Semets

Decant ordatie owing sa vate | ld dow

Presening and widnng War vows tom King Sweet

[Dont Wart Comeine non-conpatle watetont uses same space; (0.9 Passive needs for rata! que watetront wach as
swenmin, padding, salina, ek. a incomoatie wen metrboas PWC's)

Speers fx your

“Tharos anges or some sor of sunset cause to ensue that, where silent progres isnt maiden the constuction within a
reasonabi bie, te ste revert 10k evista

‘Watertor sustanable severe

‘We covet hat te Cay needs nine residential zones. One residential ze might poss be sutciet We are concemed that
‘sing zones are Gacrmnatry, diving a smal ly eo enclaves ane ghatios, eparaing che fom poorer workng om
non-working, more educated om ess educated. Urban stds in te pat iy years have cad that mixed
‘heahbourioods aa soca more Peal than sereaatedreiahbouhonss

(Glands ectanane devtopmant wan espet to sdiogea sensi

‘More protection ofthe rau! beau of St Lawence Park, lade and elt surounde

Dont Want Have te Anchor Atracton (MOC) st locaton designed a an aterthouge of atthe venture becomes francity
rsuslarable

‘ether ough on jobs and you. expect young people o lave town, get te bes education hey ean, secure good ty,
‘eylovel employment in aor utan areas and cies with age employers. Theylicome back hey wart to. Tat some
‘Newlourdand oulposor smal rae town in canae’ of extncon Let's a eto exctad about kenina our yuna pace
(Dent Waneor boat alors downtown

140129

Brockville Official Plan Public Workshop Outcomes From FebruanMarch 2009

nent comeso planning, lam amazed at sz fou downtown commercial cores huge. Thro vary ee oom for
carson of sow homes and Here fesderts Let's be brave ac tack onthe comarca fring. oincease he vale
‘of what sft ard make room fr naw consumer, This is Basic spp and demand. Lng supply can merase he vabe of jst
‘bout evervira rom mak to bashetbl dames. So why ot corel soca?”

arto te huge cormorealzore dowrtown must come Fom fo ear Gaye whon people came rom mls round, oe
tran fr al of te wordy needs. Those days are gone. Ican shop onine onto aasional tipo Otawa, © spl in the
oth end. Lots adaot to is and reduce the commensal zones cooaina uo fe dowriown. and replace i wah mb esis
{The PPS requres at provalon must be made for word Newsing those wi ow anid ogee comes

Dnt lg up he watatroe with mut esdertal or ary more baldings pease.

‘Atoréabi Nowsing What neods does Brockvse have?

‘ator hovsing Do the Couns of Leeds and Greil make an adequate provision or Brockile?

‘Afordabl Housing Does Brockviltohave suficont appropiate prices housing, both vale ard

‘We noosa vera Waly downtown ft everyone.

instatinal, or sens?

Werraes poone ing dowtown

‘ina ae the needs for shetored acconmodaton fx people al ages, in roche? Do we have enough?

‘Wie noes high density, mined use Rouse downtowr: people ented ncomes, made cass, elo co, ee Ning chek by
ont Look at whats nappening in Vancower

Day Care Facies How many spaces are noodod?

‘Wie donot nee anymore hgh se aparmers bulking onto warn

Cleaner enviroment awa rose, veual and lverapng ou oeaion wan FABR

‘Day Care Facioe How many are avaiabie?

‘Downtows commercal devsapment or King and se sees hs to aopea to loca ctzens nous seasonal tors
Betor bance of quality of win busess nares

‘ay Care Facts Ae they located to areas of proatest need or acento employment areas on schol?

‘Dawetown paring garages mi encourage peopl fhe ret eno spend me and maney downtown, ar encourage
tourists havea lok around, shop, eat. shoul be a roa vat Kg Stoel ae the watrors. oe a paring
{erage acon rom he trary agade designed a ook ike 2 shal books, win commercia Dusmesaes on ha ower eve
bene laos and res. anda roto restaurant on fe fo.

Betor protector and exparsion of pbc access to he weitont

Day Gare Facies Ar Dey afforabie?

‘More mut- ise wanspotaben (oad, pathways, waterway)

Day Care Facies: How are tw sf tanedaccroog,wnal ae tho stato ratos?

Fehard ora: everyones creave, can make acotrouton. Brookile needs tobe ncushe in toms of ethicy, ass,
‘sem petorence, He ois to Toronto asa wea! success stv.

Benor leverage and protcson of or cura ertage

Heathy Less = Cnn, Toons, Aduts-The cys wit a wecourty heath usc hat shows & pepaton more
‘vewaight ae obese han ther cousin Ortare (heathun.or, 2008) 18.1% are cbese compared 4.8% Ono,
Brock set has anole les educated, ard ower nee cemoaraohic han Ontario Conse 2008

‘Teen i patcdar need Io have enough varted outs for Bw energy and creative, and thoy look to ads Sethe example
‘Thre mst be more to cy can oto el eons buld heathy leaves

Enaure bal recdertrtrets ae heard and baaced wth busines reat

\Winat an be done to reduce the ruriber of ure ob losses?

‘Wnt shoud be done to increase the ruber vas added emptor opprtuntos?

‘ina enpioyment vals are orsageg tor each athe nxt five yoars?

\Winy dows Brose have ower labow parsepaton rae han he srrouncng townhi,or Ontario as a whole?

Gleaner envronmers a, water, rose, visual and vorapng ou locaton wan FABR.

‘Betor overage and potocton of eu cutual erage
Eure tat resent roost ae hor’ and balanced wih business tarot

How do Brocke's Pak Standards compare wih those of comearable muncialtes?

‘St Lawrence Park is ono of ho Gay's veasues I! desorvesspecal consideration. Some cf fs charm hasbeen ies ough
Inaperopcate use. Camping inthe mist ofthe woodard has desvoyed some of be woodand. The bwarting bach was eto
‘ivr boat docxina, The Gove toe east. which crow used for sings more feaueny cosedor heat reasons han
‘Tha cunt Orel Pan (Secon 68.52) state ‘an nereosng erphass sha be Baced upon te Ve by esdoris” a dracion

we suppor,

180129

Brockville Official Plan Public Workshop Outcomes From FebruaryMarch 2008

‘rcekvilte has sisten stands, Proposals have boon made io dovelp these islands though a water ax seve and in aher
ways. Snco thse ae onthe Caracian Sl, hey ae eetogicaly apie. There he dargor that humane can dot ese
Island what the cormerants and aus have done the Thee Sto arcs.

Geary he mayor rotem inthe avea is cur carbon Toca The majo measures willhave 0 come rom the province (BC has
Imgosed a Carbon Tax) an rom be natonal government (people re are beteved be Pking abou preorbouse gases)
banthore soon fore Cyto makes contoton,

any ole older busdngs n Broce are notin a at of good rep. fact, the 2006 Census reports hat 7.6% of he
butlngs inthe Cy are eed of alo ropa

‘Wat measures are carenty pace fo protect hertage buksngs? Ar these measures adequate? nt whats requed?
‘nat measures are now in lae preserve oie nov-hertage budngs? The odes emainng sone buadng in Broce
‘Wat property standards does the Cty have?

‘Sema ote Bukings aopee tobe not fy occued, some appear to ben need of ehabitaion.

‘The Gly was repro have embarkedon a Parking Study many mins ago, This stuld hap deteminng parking needs
We lock upon te waterron as bong the roa south! Wate Sree and ine primary tor ho pute enoymant tough
walking, cyl, skatig, rowsg ara boating. hs an aea for

[Geninious acess foe water, long be ver Fonts essen

‘The cyecapo, a vowed tom the watrtont sould be maaned. Thus no bukdings should be contuced which intudes nto
‘plane constuced beeen he King Sect oot ne and the water.

or quaty roads, wach sem o be ropared based on thew age, raha han tk condton

Ret wate shoul no be ae to he tom an sarin Sowa.

In some areas be Cay’ slow and santary sewers havea at ben sopratd. This shouldbe doe

Some aveas of he Ci arora ya rovises wih wats and sowerage sercae, Tne shouldbe done

The Gy contrbutes some patton tothe St Lawrence River Part fhe bing adressed wh a $46 millon projet prove
secondary treatment. Anther parts due othe lack of capacy ofthe essing beater plants handle the sowage at heaey
‘anal snot car Pat the project morsanod above wi alka increase the capac fhe pant 0 Both moat natal Groth ad
{o.cooe wah som sures.

F 160129

Brockville Oficial Pan Public Workshop Outcomes

IDEAS
Ideas trom Workshop #1 - Group 1

‘Busnes and commerce in downtowns
‘ealabty of fand for cevetpmert ee.

‘Aract resources for evelopard

Develop t north end

(ey win te 8g Tha

Irrasrucro (ereatonal, nator, cranage, sewers, e, capac, age)
‘Assstance fr Perth Steet (alway dowraown)

‘Westom north-south roads (1. Cone Svet)

Tate cca to beta handle vate

Irerve ple vansporaton

Development of downtown mal, quaint

Improve vansportaton outs (40, a wer)

Mere posi in dowricwn cars

Pedesttan wakmays

Ideas trom Workshop #1 - Group 2

Waterton access
Many new arenes ott

(Catal ertronment ive

“Evens hows yout name”

Transporation rks (Ocawa, Kingston, Monten)
Bock Pond Coruervason Ave

From FebruaryMarch 2009

17 ot29

Brockville Official Plan Public Workshop Outcomes From FebrueryMarch 2009

Ideas trom Workshop #1 - Group 3

Incentives tack of population owt
‘Atoréabity and diversity of nousng

ivory of fobs

Ireantwes tendon of young poole

Proiz spending (precerve hertago, equal succes thoughowt iy)
More user pay

Downtown cals (nore people ving owrtown, festivals)

in doveoperent

More greenbet

Enorgy (esti, end or owt)

‘Ideas from Workshop #1 - Group 4

Proximity to St Lawrence and USA
‘io of oy « physica and lation (ease of geting around, roxy to other communis)
(Cemmercazaton of watorrot (changing Man Set ro restora) lea 0 sustalnabity
Terme restoraton ot nna

Creative vansporaton = ure!

Devoloprant at gray 29

Parking bel ovral satay hat ncdes sotscape

Development ot coutnouse area

“Two oteoludos harerting nor and eout end

CChangein mode of wansporaton

Development for ours = viding between orth and sou ends

Enorgy conservation (eet ighng, araporaton, rslaton)

Centaisaton of servens

Retenton of caren edu downtown

‘Sonage bfawe -chalonges ta facto development

Reteton of peopl tact hem back o Brooke.

Batanong nee of nd with preserving envtermont

Ideas trom Workshop #1 - Group §

Downtown ovtalizes
\Verantalhwatertor coridr ining mutodal
‘pact four CN Rating recente fay of He rght service redirect ngs oxide of conemunty

Ideas from Workshop #1 - Group 6

reli looks Ike an antique cy - mantiing this wil saract urs
Hartge buidngs =r sgn to craw people te Highway to Gowriown (fsa wonder supe o come nt Boch an
ete bulings and ren space)

FRedevelomort of properties dowtown

Manianing hectagetrasiucure

Pasting and utes

‘33 beng brought Nero for youn peop

Use erage balaings fornow uses

[Acurrert reer come downtown 0 see what veasiro we have

Pruble acess tor businesses who need water acess,

Moe decking for nor ene people

Welounded - not enle focused (equ pats etree, young peop, ob, tourism)

aoaton eat to he needs ote conmunty sled rages

ies emai on big box tars and more emphasis o sat local buainesso8

Keep young people here balance of workers and ees

Decontaized dor! and provincial oresoyrar.

Sotclent vades people and sevices

1B 0t29

Brockville Official Plan Public Workshop Outcomes

Ideas trom Workshop #1 - Group 7

Proxy tole cies, acess to businesses
Betor few betweon rth and south: make Broce grow a a whole
saeneion of waking path

‘Senior etzon cevelegrnt (nung homes, apartments, condos, t.)
“Trendy cevelopan or downtow: ard or area oevelaprant

Brocka irasructure to accommodate fue doveopment
Roundabouts, prey are» share oft

Dwers and susan economy

Retain youth, bul carers and fares

‘eg yout back 1o Brock - cormectons to age centres to dive ecanomy

From February’March 2009

190129

Brockville Official Plan Public Workshop Outcomes

Ideas from Workshop #2 - Group 1

Solr panes everywhere
Las rtance on ha wcll gris

Employ water trois

Cantal on rsouretungs of people Gomeunty
(Gaptaize on facites a and cure

Maret and promoto te autos of Brockil

Higher density aowrtown «ve an wore

Pats King Stoel bondedin fo landscape wih races on ooops
Use the natura slope tothe vert advantage

Wel-payeg bs

‘Econome dvrsty

eave onthe core

‘Smart Growth dowrtown

‘Downtow-revalzason and tourem

Indust! Park

Comeneria ret

“The courage to continu othe risks - suppor te dessin makers
Define who wear ard then howto got tare

Brand ourselves as we ge curcehes ardin an atracive manner
‘Nami core toa road basod regional economic development lan
canon nique development downsow

evils dowrtown scade=

‘Anatal downtown on East Water stoo parking

Meshotls downtown -bousque ste

Neaiig and eatarence rooms dowrtown

Invest n'a brestwate dowrion?

Weltdeveloped dens oercourage rea’ - ss cost to orice
etal iy sowcos trough green’ fleck lr ireroverents
[Conte of Escalon for Edveaton, Scene, Madea. ot

Ideas from Workshop #2 - Group 2

ecsarch Conte
‘Terpet pectic ndustoe

Grow own predic (local fod) tough greenhouses
Setaite ucaton Cento a St Lwronce Calpe
Internatonal Schoo! for Engh asa Second Language
Green erargy

‘Statanahie Econamealy

Sotainabie Socaly

Sustainable Eneronrertaly

Sustainable ae 3 Commurty

Promote Bospher Destination

Nrunng of Cutural Communes

‘ts and Crafts Cooperate (Uaucation World)
Development ot Raway Rune!

Use of iandsby al -accesstie by waters

‘ats Traning Courses a St Lawrence Calege
‘Greon movement eronass)

Sostinable Alenatve Eres

‘Thermal Co-Ganaraton

More volurierm fo heap Brocvile vant
‘Aniterconnacted Community,

From FebruaryMarch 2009

200129

Brockville Official Plan Public Workshop Outcomes

Ideas trom Workshop #2 - Group 3

Expand slid vades courses at St. Lawance Calege
Eshance Kin set -podesian ony one day er week
Paint Lagos n ertage colour

No paking May o September

“ogre varus languages onthe websto
einstue Tune! Bay

Consider alll Brock fr econonie Seveloprent
Etminatesonh-suth duison

Foe sho bus for acco one ty

CComress downtown aon tor waking ad commercial
igh cate trades peopie- se them erase thom
Heb cy stat

Use St Lawrence cologe mere
‘cating and ging commune

Dery of weath- a good balance

‘tain gonoral and Ws Cone

Sra town valves a Wandinass

Use the bes asset: be Waterton
‘Goran to Ota

Pole on the beat

Develop a theme o brand or Brockvite
Maran be tral

Pica oftce te downtown aoa

Ideas from Workshop #2 - Group 4

"Now octoogies wih whic reach people ar sot he cy
‘Nead commer vansto Otawa and Kingston

18 200, solar tars or loca generating saors or other energy development
Elminatedoveloomer charges

Pano wth St Lawrence colege to atact mor foregn students
Promate nore soca! events.

Oficial Panto have UbanDeign Gudotnes aso what a bung should ook ke
Devolopant of atlorable housing mized income, good ava

More he for seniors rman in own hones

From February/March 2008

‘An ongoing Cazens Govp orice wen Coun be chamber does a gods wih respec to Business

‘tact ererprenauts sce they wit hap grow the Commarty
Encourage grees tecnologes a an Indust

Eneoutage Now economy nousties |

‘Gon of Excolerce lr ret heath ce

Expand mental haath care ny

Fup the nrastucture Ot bes.)

21 0f29

Brockville Official Plan Public Workshop Outcomes From February/March 2000

‘Ideas trom Workshop #3 - Waterfront Area
Docking soacesatety

Recoaton

Touremtosbvals

More dosing fe sma crats

Some resort

Maran Yacht Cub and Marina

Marian rook Tel

Mairian Cunningham Park

Yas cus

‘Gier Marna (main mara history reveling stason needed)
‘As proper become avalabie boy up popery and keep aren

bike path improve Yacht Cb

Improve what we current have {coveop marina, upscale residential Yacht Cis, pube
sore, Cunningham Par)

Connected walways

‘Green canopy nerese and marta

Marain walkways

Improve wateront docking tacts

ke butangs have a consstent rhea heme

Lage he

Technology conte

Resaurants

Decking destination toss tat

Sal busses

Sustainable tose (erage, ore)

Pesidensl

Boasng, eereatonal

Maret ar fT bulang

‘Seawall eanson

‘Tonal erosive

TRaLs!

Mantain ver views

Wistert acaes the lace

Move boundary-Rowng Chub

Downtows hoirestavariconverton cane

Martain ral on Blothouso Island and Hardy Park curing the wit
TTouism enhancements anchor atracton. pats)

Buy Bockhouseiand rom ods.

Fanon bem to showcaso tunel view tom re (some sapeo, he as 3)
Use tunna as access pont for transporaton ink uptown, ai ian, ee:
Preserve park and ron space, gazebos fr communty use
Lane assist owners wah fade improvement ower eres!
‘Nehtoetendesngs of how King Sree can ook

Downtown ansplashpad-mulb-se

220129

Brockville Official Plan Public Workshop Outcomes

ore watertront actos (et kis wate tans, kaya)
ore washrooms win baby change tables, handicap access
Boat ramos - monitor use

Bus and RV parking spaces

Par “maint

"Nagarsan-e Lake" bu beter

Purchase waterron’ propery as comes avalble

Moro rcreatoal uses

Tal ships and MOC
Westarypuble vale Biocsnouse
Expansion of Hardy Park west

Water Swat one-way

Reuse of ET commercial

Nove hotels

Historie designation
Commercatowrsm nfl rom watertont to Krg
Recovetoment of Wate Svet parking bt
(Greon pub wansit

‘Tor ralroes

“Tourstvan on vacks

‘At purpose fay

ater Soot watetront

‘Seong economic gateway tom watrerto oy

Pole mantaned boardwaa interspersed wih Commerc uso
Restaurant and rata

More pulse docking - commercial boatog

Water tae

Rowing cb?

Emanced pathways noth and south
Festivals and pus activ

\oeation ad aopoararco of any prin garage i teal

‘Smal cas and puble watersports
Recreation (no engines) etc. hyrplane 2 days
More eects!

“oar boas, ruse shes, tl ships

Festval tot Cortoon Park

Pasta, no Canada goose

(Croae ship pot

Pas plan ieractve tami tency)

‘es acces tower

From FebruaryMarch 2008

230129

Brockville Official Plan Public Workshop Outcomes

Increase escent ron of Water Steet
Increase corent facies.

‘Ideas from Workshop #3 - Downtown Area

Commer -retailon Port
Creral sopra -inearves

Norenenage

Reuse of Trnty Church - suitable

‘ate uo, sorts Pub

Aebaty npn

Por Sect cout bea jowe-revtaze

Tred oIstnds!

‘Shute sores alards- scoes to al reisnts
paras rink

‘Bho al systom

Pasig south of creok wih nko At Centro
Ineeaee dent

Incense n proteasionlofeas

Wiking val -pedestian access
estore and baad basing

Malo hh Genay wih aPertage there
‘Anat coopn sore downtown

Mor esaurass
Specialy shops

Mor onoraimant

Imerovedhertage

Noe rata and wursm, related businesses
Usseale developer

an tor commercial on King

Commas ana tour

Hisone enon

Resin courthouse

From February/March 2008

240129

Brockville Official Plan Public Workshop Outcomes
stat musaum

‘Beauty Pert Suet (coming of wan, cing downtown)

Restore ol buiings

Connect ke pain

Higher density rsiertia
Ideas from Workshop #3 - St. Laurence Park and the Islands

Natura park (aint got ive oats away trom thre and otro)
SLU o Fembark (cance and kayak closet shor, maorbeus Out n man chara, rowing cb)
Expand parting ots

Shuto sorieot

Imorove parting

‘Toor randy (ampers, kayaks, canoes)

‘Tarsporaton srs

Pablo wato ts

‘More access for torte

(Can bo used fer economie advantage fr Brcko

Insoato ulation of St Lawrence Park

‘etal colerat ans

Ecotourism = possble development

Goaner

(Gy maitain ownership

Ideas trom Workshop #3 - General

Bungs (comiemertary win each other. ot sje)
ov tours

Hwang stores

Monoral or Woleyshutie nort-soun,

401 signage

Histone smopeing deve

Broil shod be agatonay ote Blosphure Reserve

‘Gateway entaro sg - porape at Oxo Steet

Madan we canopy Cure an arbors, parting seatogymaste lar)
Landscape'sveetscage of comnocig seats fo King (eg. Marke Steot West ard Broad)
mance bung facades lor water vaws

From February/March 2008

250129

Brockville Official Plan Public Workshop Outcomes From February/March 2009

Ideas trom Correspondence Received

‘romate Fortnac Arch Bosphere Reserve Gateway
Waterton, St Lawrence Park ard stands (umecored by the sob, unranked):

Develop top spacitzed urveaty» ealope» anchor atvacton fr castwesclance education and cues based on
sistarable conpetove advaniages.

‘Arp Oeveop port no an inca oonertor

‘Aron sage
Ingrve al ey park: Cunningham, Brock St (nes rice of Wales Shoo), Harty, Pech St te encourage pub ve,
sal ergagorent~ he lta park on Brock St roast Stewart Bd shots - cle ho aea along he Broo Tra or
wrakerscyolstte. wo eed pone lads, nore garbage cortares, bay ervelures, Decl "aes,

Expand podestan ose of a carinaous goon space along al'3 solr of te watertortshorene Many my group agreed).
samples to enlore.FABR and Seaway scence, Mental Health, Tarsporason ard Logics

‘Aor RecarstuteArpor Commission. appoint aviation ard business savy Indi wth ars! and a vison. Evertaby
‘ren necdod fr an arpor marae wih Pest Secondary aber management aining and cede

Pant more tres everwhere

Create a new pedestan and view corr wi he newly acquted spo waren adjacent he westside of St Lawrence
Park, or adtonal passive o-are low pact recreation.

Develop Sustanable Tours using nds rom the FABR projact due in August

‘Aeprt.bby er Customs cearaee ons.

Hight cera commutes cancertata he putchasng power of rosin. This aan alow a0 muti coset! bulking of
lowincome wonkers may have me puchasig Powe per square km fan 8 pica couny-iveg'subcvion of monster
homes. More concerted purchasing power means more econo cty ia ven area, greater le publ ant,
‘destin and erhanced pub aeas,coumoocttan cre values | dev

Ensure atte watertot sly access al cnzens~ Ihe emphasis shoud be on lizons and not on vistors

‘Guster watartont aco, For fhe west oes ferlaust paca ost. Some actos ae compat sh as pading ar
ower boating, Thortere create a motrtte zane onthe watrway, between SkotonIsund an ns west ip (S08 Alongs
Perfor varous restrictions Muncipaltes can create waterway resticsors wth acoroval om OFO.excopsng erent ovate
[Consote commercial dng to east walr Peart pat area, and conser seasonal moor tare toe

‘Arp Commision o seek membership In por cganations, Canadian and irteational

ardy Park. Add a wading poo for umat carn at Haroy Park ~ Do NOT takeaway ry pane fx paving — improve ighing
FRenore swimming areas ih equarded beaches and cocks) and te Pacing Tal gr and ahead) along ths atch
sroine

'StOy he feast ofa breskwster eter there o extending tom te eas eof Blockhouse sand.

‘Aor Sell hanger ts weh sic buldng code, (cour, 20 atari, peo costes),

EEeourage ctzensieparcpationnhepingo mardain parks and Was: Frands ould be anyone: chien, senor, er
chor agus,

Fighinch telecormuncatons a a focused and detnete soca of importance

Lota vansientmooing insect 2, seasons! mooring and conmeria scuba diving in sector 3o futher east

(str metor bat rated actviy (marina, mooring, et) around Tunnel Bay, and possy around St Lawrence Lodge and the
Developing an OP wan more specte deal abe sell and moe sgt Zoning

‘Arpt Atract aviation businesses to cy owned hange’ and commercal bulng

Probabiy a highspeed al ink conecong ust Ota and Kington

Patang garages neeced in the downtown: Suggest ocaion across rm the Lora on Bust Set, st he municipal
bara tot on George SL, the Market Street munipal et andlor e munca on Wata Seoet

Exon restive song reves he etenstcaion othe eas end readonal waar wher wo Art ae occupted by
‘are larly resiarces, an he ard compere to downtown maertor, snoxoansiv, a whe f the River wo ees
‘Ato resent anc cotati tarsieaion sun of War St, heght reece to 1 Sry, keeping exsing pron space,
‘Custer motor nolow mpact activo St Lawrence Pak and newt acauired adjacot and.
‘Aepr-Atact FBO Fed Base Opeatr to ee up national Fight Acadeny. May Counties are having hel plets waned in
‘Garada as avin is more than 50% cheaper than Eurooe a Asi.

Itseeme Amereanc kof come and shop here, and vie vers. What abou transportation Ink to Moristown? Ary or
hoverraft woud be fn a pacteal lea fr days too. You know, Waterloo has an ok-asioned ain going o St Jacob's
‘nd back fr afew bucks you can civ tin 20 mints, but the vine mich mee fun, The waterways ou alate, bt also
ln imosdmantct eons. Lets oly svenathe and overcome the chalenaes.

‘8 Tawence Park: Leave tale! Remove the dose angle Bs aes fx pu swinmig (he csrect beach scan
potud because of ack of walar cert and human and be cal bacteria). Prove kayaking acoesatocung'arage o,
Kavaks—ootet habit fords and areas by Dating buses and vooe Pa one ard prove ood ard sheer

Innew developer ovsie the downlown each roa should have ateas one saewak Each sdowalk shouts have a
bboaovar ofa east wo mets, hot ploughed ssow. Tis boulvard should be landscaped an Rave ees rouahy every
Inna reaidertia and conmarcal use bobwean Water St and King St, mas 3 etores, kgping wing green space,

25.0129

Brockville Official Plan Public Workshop Outcomes From FebruaryMarch 2009

Create a Pacing Cerive or peo o explore te anc in a osow impact way
‘Moving te hub of commercial sca cing acviy eas of dowetown

‘Arpt Develop paras with ocal business and iocal evestran cngorium fo bul and operate a solilectic gonaraton
farm on wasted NW sector o aor propery.

In20 years, or puss Hora contnuest ply a centrale as communtyletormaton centre in 2008 butwoen 8,000 and 10.000,
eopl vite me rary each month a they tod us na survey al Hey suppored downtown elasusiessbarkswataront
(baler or afr wating he rary. We get many vistors from Nort Amer, Europe, Asia. Canada vitng the ayo Use
‘ur toe ntornt stations ard tho at lormaton about acl aur atactoneiom ou at

‘We sugoos hat he City del longterm phy and unig sralgy fede te salty haart the Cay ve level
‘cossngn. We sugges, Pwr, tal the Cy sve reduce the numberof vel ossinae.

Irena resdontal and commorcl use noth o Keg St proserung wow condor ané planes.

Increase feos or long tor parking of bat tasers Cowntown

Creation ofa Motortee zona of matory

‘Arpt Intl tl key lock yee and al 7 octane non etharl mo gas, 100LL ato ue and et A

Perth Sot needs improvernen~a mature of hertago ard poor” mariained sum bugs tis a cent access route
‘bemeen he c's noth and sou ends. Posse to bury overhead nes ors there underving bedock tat makes this
Favour waking. cig, and peeing use over diveg et king, and power boating, om wos! 6 east Encourage low erpact
{estvals and events, evraning the locaton ABR.

Direct Gas Tax Funcs mere towards more focused geen purposes (rather than sofware)

Mor biel lanes wn rac

Provide wal tals ly owned islands - concer about hr rage haat the bu store upto bats to hess lands
for day aa tine and ty txpayers who Bayt mastain Pam do olathe use of hem.

‘Ensure fhe waa niake and reamentfaciy prove elite gh qualty dreking wat.

Explore ctor cowntowriwatrror locations fr the MOC fo the prominence i woud eed to become financial sl uicer.
More water’ and sland accass ough clean aces such a swenmng,fowng an paasng

‘Arpt Sol volume a ower pie to atta! arcaf waffle and people Broce

‘Seppo tow ironct ron eaves (water turbo, community gurdons, eer te)

‘Draw broad ctzan Pout aswel as haber and OSIA put npn

‘More clean avizry commas (eg Parke and Rc, Traneporatn, .)

‘ArporDavetp video nforaton Nos at aepot overs oarport|

How can we get more fish nfo the St Lawreres Fiver? Tha fishng has decid over the yoars. Cant wo restock tor something
LUsverage Canadian values of conmon sens, balancing respect or erironment, soil and economies, ewarang
LEED devetomont.

Nor reset nersiicaton downtow: nor of Kg St

‘Aeportdoesnct have toe safle when Key ocksin pac. Atleast ut fe requires

‘Moe resdontaliteniicason south of ing St restctodo 3 sores, none south of Water St

‘Arpen-Cantact out maitenance, show tomoval ane ass eteg

Downtown and Watetrot St. Lawrence Par, and isands(urecorded by the sobe, unranked):

Mere resdetalrteralicaton trough enavaion and elmnaton of Rt

‘Arpt Work wih aubortes o etl ATWS weather infomation fo lcs.

‘Tiss Brockvie'spine opportnty to "yt tpn Lt rote a aut ty tat woaves ft rch Canadian history wih
‘bight, even whimsical, ture. Achitecual urban designers sho be ning vp ois! Lets expect an award-weeing osin,
thats inecird not ist bye raalhertage of wae. rocks and pines. Ut by laure sal, and funding culties a8 wel
‘Ripor'Ercourage GPS IF epproacheapabety

Encourage renovation and Goveopment to enhance heriage bulngsin sectors ard &

‘Arr ata weather cam and ts Woatrar Network

Creat awatotont pedestan tal that connvous along the shoreline, Sectors 13, comected oan extended rok Tal ard
‘hor paar.

‘Broce s button ail. You can have 4 storey buns on King, then 6 story bulings on James, ee.

‘Design aconval prominent watorfont lection fo he Anchor Atracbon (MOC, etched alge plc square ata node,
‘connected to Broad St oF Ci Hal Have face bot the ver and Water St.

Detne, marta, ac nerease the vow corcors ard ew planes Secs 1-6. peservng Views of ty hal, steele, ver,
‘court house, Bockhowe Isard, et. rom map perspectve (ea Halfas, tama),

Zone for eight estcsone and buk betmaen King to Wete Seo stoi, fh tow baldings, max sory, south of Water
‘Mato parking garages onobrvsive, Wealyuncerground. rane surface pring, maximize fe landscaping.

Fecice boa! Yar parking and mooring win seco 1-2.

(reat Boyt anes on major oats

Comprise the Warton Pec Use Seatogy Commtoe wih hoe reprasering abroad range of esdnts, to batance the
buenos and motorezat communes,

Develop Stowart Ave Winam SUBroad St asthe major roth south ada,

Separate he Waterton Forum rom tw Dowtown Forum

27 029

Brockville Official Plan Public Workshop Outcomes From February/March 2008

Revert St Lawrence Park and surcunds back o a naira reer, and qt area, favouring walking, yng, swing and
‘adding, ove power boating, commercial scuba dvi, aré parking

‘Sie Paring Det 2 by King Steet

‘Agn oy business now wher clea indicated, not wating 4 yeas forthe OP Zoning map.

‘Wat edocaon and tsning opportunites are avait nthe Brose region o enhance the skitevels of te worktorce?
Imrove online engagement wih resides (planning edveaton, dacussion Forums, et)

‘Engape studs (og target Civic Sues, rchtectre classes)

Cul Broce Bocoo acai al excotonce sore a hese Hes of varng and edveaion?

Wat rots could St Lawrence Collge athe hgh stools ay?

‘Wat eforts have boon mace o encourage the development of groan indus? A four wid generators now som obo
mooted tom Germany or Derma. The lava tacholony i Nt hah

(Compres the Warrant Puc Us Stmgy Comme wih toe representing abroad range of ede, to balance the
busnges and motorboat conmuntes,

‘os Brecvilshave fe tecrical and sent base to make geen research a possbty?

Separate he Watrrant Foran rom the Downtown Forum.

_Abough cleat definton ef sustanable urs ss nat wdelysecopedIrtematonly, the cy has mary oppartnos nis
tect Fr exarse, wth some vesimest in Parsporaton nasuctr, the oy cous Be & 004 Bake fr eyo
SisPlannng Dset'2 by kng Soest

Bicycling ated acbvees such as tus, parades, shows, an Seminars could be conseredwsporsble toute, lowing these
lage populations to oy a more ral oatdoo act.

‘Ain ety business now wher clea Indeafed, nat wating 4 years forthe OP Zoning map.

Recreatonal padding is anther opportunty, win 2.3 millon anacans who pads rereienlly

lmorove online engagement wih resets planning edveatn, discussion Forums, et)

‘Teeter conect wit amore diverse target market over the ng im erage signs and ifrmaton cov be waite nto
er aravages, start wi French ofcourse.

Engage sudors (0. get Cie Stiles, Artec clases)

ina measures can tha iy ake a reduce our energy cost?

‘Cul he pub Vane sorice operate more etecbvey and ficient if were to bocame a nay sence? ney serene
esc inthis ae tb en wecpeda org Share tas

‘Wat scape i er or ensurng Bat ary new resdrsal Secures, are beter raulated and make batter use of water and cert
ator away om thw Cty sewer est?

nat can be done to alow te Cyto Impse higher sandards

‘Aw al pars of he Cty sored wit parks and connecting waking ad oyng res between those parks

‘The Federal Goveromant owns some Waterton propery Wom Thomas Sx eastwards pst Contoon Park Glerca Trace,
Incding Blooouse island lis mortar hat bw Oral Pan ince ale satoent hat tis be Cys ntenon to cae
‘ese lads when they bocora avalabe for purchase

‘Seasons and'vanslew motorboat moorng is caventy being accommodsied, wth anciner $120,009 being spenton more
ooking around Tune! Bay 2009, How much sina sper o he oer bower lee ard lane thee ran otoraed
‘There publoy onned lana teat e Broctuls castors borer whic shou be conldered oho ve oats and oO
boating prpoees. One sites the StLawrance Lodge, whoee resirts could wel wokomo some arimaton onto waterron.
The ors Brookil’s Potton Cont! Fac, which cou wo make a bullng avsable lo comma acy onc he
“rear Uootade oat scomosete

Creatlon of eyeing ruts aed enprovarent of exiting mts tas,

‘Werk wath Township of Eizaberiown Xioy © conmoct Brocklewih he Thousand island Pasionay Trl

‘The Cy needs a poey, ae resources fo implement that pokey, to enhance the quality ofthe Cys urban frost.

Cente improving tha Brock Tra by: Exondig .pemaps BvOUDN an enlarged Bust Creek ute uncer he way 401,10
pormt cyclers ard wakers fo vavel ames! auto, he Mae Jogon Conservation area. tering along e Ber
Crook oa last Nor Augusta Road. Maan bei, s0 Bat Kean be used as nondod (waking, rer, o) wih soo
‘sonal cobs cared and cea sonaoe

Ireoate tho avaibity a esrmonay gran pis.

Mate water arking oun avalale al usc buldngs and ouside publ washrooms.

‘Mako pubic wastvoors, wi appropriate sigrage more wel avaliable.

‘ner space alows, conve nlorsaciors to ath cies when wort ls undotakan on hem, wah care sign, e
‘rsropiason sfneighboutra and wil rarely be reared

‘Ate tra foun a map was dtbute suggest a segmentation of he Dowetown and Wataront dss. Discs $0 9
‘arly denote the Downtown, but Distt 5 shoud be extonded south to Wator Sree, smlary Dist 2 should be sum of
Watar Sweet Win these changes. Oats 10 cloary donot the Watotront.

Resdontal development shoud oat in be Dewetown, But at on he Wate. In parca, Distets 7 and 8 are aperopite
{ort bls. District 8 ia Herta Ostrict and shouldbe spec weatod.

int funcng sources are avasable to ensure tal the ambance of Gowrown s preserved and enhanced?

i 280129

Brockville Official Plan Public Workshop Outcomes Fem Februay/March 2000

torts shouldbe made o encourage rea uses between Keg Stand Water Stes. Ti sto Bull a connection fr padosbans
‘betwoon he Waterront,soun of Water Soot, othe Downtown, rah of Water Steet.

(Codeine shoud ensure tha here are no Gemoonswihost a emonevates capacty and nent ebuild a replacement
Fasing at, he sto shout be lanescape, a the expense oto owe, an Ince a east ne park bonch avalable for pule
‘Sterne fom Kang Set, own fe side soe, toe Rive shad be Gear

‘Any nom Dulin should prose he tur of carry high, the way tat the Wodgwo0d has, and avo! aberatons.
Betar use shoal be made ofthe space above he King Steet lore fo ressortal puposes.

‘The nace between parkg los and sveets shoul be landscaped to nlude Woes and, whore the Wace, ower
bods, Tis lanéscapina shoud have waleays Brough 1 tbe soa.

"Taree a noedto mance ie appearance Oe paring ls nom and south of King Set

Development ong Parkedale Avenu has, as wth man communes, sucked he Viaiy Wom the downtown, Measures ae
‘oeded ensue al ute rela covolcomentis decid oto downtown unl such imo as th vacancy at has base mach
Censderston should be ge to purchasing a bung, Improving Rs uablly and then esaing Does be Cty adiataion
have the capac lo mango such an nnovalve roar?

‘The area fom tm Bus alway Staton to King Svect san area of patios deterioration. This could bacome a major sve
font fr valor othe iy daseres atonten.

‘Sunday concors and cher open at Tesbals and peromancss.

‘The Cy shoul pursue tho purchase oad along the waortont which snot rew in puble ownership.

‘The parking lt on he east Se of Henry Steet gets cowded and so consideratonstould be given fr afigher ee for iors.

290129


in

i
|
i
I
1

pate
etter “Sewemoma> met
fates Meee St
falas sme vero Tet
Patents ‘cerns
falaoens Sogo ot
falas impos
rises ‘ctteren Sot
caieae ‘swolgjsearate ngoouatzr nem bet
pales “aencorcens So
Palaonss rtmnemmnginconort St
anes setacen pae
Ss oa cop iemcrrermgunnnns wend
Fmecto en tem roe
Sms own smoumaneet umatd


Ec eecemnt I
= atta eat meres sate
== meee es
=m a
Sms wasseemesis {
Ey ——a se
= a
= ae
Ett seeomanettenearestemiy Se
= mm
Es od
= a
= oer ent —— ee
= smosenes Ff
SGRESSes S
= =

j
|
i HAUT

I] eccvtscsusesosecesvesesuseeousnesvesceussesussse esssee

|
:

EEEEEEREPEEREBIERERD

i
[inane
| SHTEUTETTD


!
i
i

ores

Ss a

BS: ses = H
Ee aaa = i
ot Seen :
a eS OE :
=a Sees OS Q
ae encores oo :
asst Mowmemmaseremarosteouanenlsnmed om °
rete nomen ayneuion ain cantons °
ed SERS SE :
sae “eee SE é
=x ccna ms :
poeta wane ioe E 3
ere eee tai) é
sro wn ‘seaman ema tose how he aE &

i
i
H
i vagenenenyrcguvenens3 2 TH

H
a
~~ RESRESEESSES SEES ESE8

mm pepe pee et os
on naam rs ns apr
ne mt onan seen ee?

Sper nonsoop cman oat

So srsenae os

~ ERESS S22 £ SE8E88 £88-




H
I
i yagauuelll doo yy |fueceveee roy ayuyenvay|onzeryy eyes

i
ig dagageese gg ¢

i
i
<<< fH < < <<ccecceee cco

i
{
i
H
:

i
A at

j
|
i
|
i
}
i
1
hi
d

‘

Ef vopunveeneneennneenusenennenenonney yo ponepnagen py

a

3
4

8 9858888

F
I
i
H
SOSSSESSSE LERGGUg ENS ESE SSE EE EEE ERE

i: oo senrses © © wecorecccoes

Efoee npnnnny oop apppeennenen upeuenvopepvepneppoeeiee

8

‘Gonastegageeren or iSingsste
‘atteiyeme ay <a

om unos a iihoan:

Tec ca rg sonaaso
ies cen nas

setae ape: gene Seemaoew oat seventeen

1
TEEEEESSEER EER OGEGGGoegggg TT

i

i

i

i
PET TESEEEEEEE
EEEEELT

|

i :

i
a

aif

Fe

FLEE LEE LEE

aa
pit

2R2EE


seo rng an sea xe
serene mas enne igd ansae fein Ene
2 a Scam She

Eats Shem
se yeep aon toes von a steer
~ ‘esmes anad Serene

roca a, tennis
“heracomimates tnt peace : mn
Glee nemeemens B =
werent nnctewmecrimsns : ca
eo pag sr i nce H en
a moaeyam ni macy no tt a + tein
Ee ; Ssh
ae tee
mymssmumpe screens
Sasa eerns uss,
Sa Tem ante stem : Shoe
erate ead St nem
Some eras 2 Soe,
(omy imc an we nas 2 tama ne,
spore nn on me aa tn + stm,
‘Seheip Screens : Seongeece
wenn tan a i Secs
step sen mie an ks 5 Stocse
Perera 2 Stomm
So srr aed oe 5, Seats
sme mai
ming ste as) nw mom, _ vpn dn

; seeveres oe veeeee

£] ccvvooee oe eoonee @ oa aaseneas ove eee av o@ cont

y @ eee 22 2 2 22 LeeVee eRgeRe 2 Lee eeeeee eee Le

om:
ESS =m :
rena — :
cnespiin yn = “

cmemnaey sores eee =m
ens SS i
SS a

whopes amas ES i


earcres tees
‘SSctoeer paces
teeta mg tne gar mony mo

‘Community Fon Fetevary 2, 2008)
ip Gunton Theme

seman “Neonat

I

or eo cc coerees |

PRE EHT

‘ete Shoes
Sete cttens
(Seceoe Catone
‘Soesoe Cues
Sines
‘Stender
‘Sete Ours
‘et De cages
‘Stand Outre
“anes


Commuty Foran February 26, 2008)
cp non

og erases eene ean eeenvenmnnadl

a
Sao
=
Sa
gn
Sears

srestottnam cme Soro 9 nt oan whe


‘rep Qineton Theme amt the Conmat
ae -chrge chat aan ccommodae espe
ss omer (levine rete of remnant)
vite oe ‘rach eye ahr e

‘sve Choos ‘Geese nae ory

Pootenteoh ens aginces cer tie
(Shaye tad te Seciir-coracnre seme oder

Smciesove tone tira ppg wc cone enon as

Slicers Pregesnonais se

Sino Srecinng ruranewe

Siteacmmyes Serer poetry mony
Petia cnten sw

bersteta ery

Yee var tet Satya oe tr aya art

Soetseorooce res me)
Scns aye oreon a ih, one ef ee,

H
|

Seu seu WEEE EEE EEE wunnunanes!

Voc vaue et ercnmaray oon oe
woes RGtecona ean fad anes dao
‘ivan et ‘ran Serr ay enn car

‘ia hae SS See we man ga

Wemn-Ghage —$—Bhepaou teu en roto

Veer cheye 3mm oman ety ann ar aan ough Nate poe
Ween-Ghege 2 Ramer haary

Uisee“Ghage 2am moto ge 4 and aay ate ote)
isee-Chowe > apetrar any we)

Viece‘Gtoge 8 Gatmpanmowntovoneae

auvassdeneeorenseveeeuronsesesaasonsouuueereeseuuseuroNses,

stureateeevensusaasf}

euswumeunnennese:

broesouueueeuneueususeeNuEgacaacesss eevee

‘Xm Acosta ono

seesoesensnenacal

Vecsensnueesaszes

senrenregueuseeesuuuuasapsennsnyy,

Seine weetatoosoeee me”

Sermo ones

Soties SESS wen mien meme

even ca ftmemncyn eect

Seow sevens
ites mt Lm Cee
rent met scans ny crepe

EEEEGGEESEEESOGGEEEEEEE
i
2
t

Set

HD
Hid

Hittite
He

ce |

HREREE COREE EMER MUMUNMMReUE EEE eEUEENESEcseeoR


i
I

HEE

2

SECRERERRE


‘Downtown and Watertront Wortshop March 4, 208)

Or mon

Heit

‘Yoru urge See meat otal eect

(Goma spacer neh

{Gra rus Boaoune San oy Pd eg ie
‘eramermecoraa rer ate a)

oveoctnaae matron

‘ane uo howcaer tron fo ree dese)
(stom ecm orto treperner aoa on aon,
(tte Srecenece or onesay oe

‘len ten

porett teres

i
i

S
Se
; @ Seer
: 2 Sa
H :
; 2 SS
; 2:
veggies as awue ane


sia age on ong
Pao re ese
otnmatr re
iw Sota cma an rect
ENC eam bwrenan et Beech tan en 9 a)
Ee ‘Ages ease baarg ton ematons bss otom
Enc Leen antaomamen tay pry un ome
Ee enemen those sng Bots net

‘Stay Pern Sra crn ot an gg owt)

3 Rasecetpecnavntee
3 Minit arenas

3 Seb eye tag warton
3 hatre soca

1, Setar atest

rye non

Sssssssssssesssssassesessess se

o BRB RREsccon en!

S))8bbbes

i


RRRRRRRGERES


