City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes

5:30 PM - Tuesday, May 28, 2024
City Hall, Council Chambers

‘The Council meeting was called to order on Tuesday, May 28, 2024, at 5:30 PM, in
the City Hall, Council Chambers, with the following present:

Mayor Matt Wren, Councillor Philip Dery, Councillor Jeff
Earle, Councillor Jane Fullarton, Councillor Katherine Hobbs,
Councillor Mike Kalivas, Councillor Nathalie Lavergne,
Councillor Louise Severson, and Councillor Cameron Wales

Nil.

Staff: Sandra MacDonald, City Manager, Robert Nolan, Director of
Economic and Development Services, Phil Wood, Director of
Operations, Sheena Earl, City Clerk, and Lesley White,
Manager of Business Engagement & Partnerships

Land Acknowledgement Statement

Mayor's Remarks

Mayor Wren congratulated Downtown Brockville business owners, the DBIA
board and staff on the very successful street event in 2024 held Saturday,
May 2Sth. He acknowledged the number of visitors and residents who
attended and said he looks forward to future events this summer.

Mayor Wren announced that traffic calming measures are being installed,
noting he and staff have been receiving very favourable feedback. He
explained that efforts to calm traffic will be ongoing and noted the City has
created an intake form to receive additional suggestions of areas of
concern. Mayor Wren identified the original pedestrian cross overs on King
Street at Rivers Avenue (near St. Lawrence Park) as areas requiring
further review. His Worship said a report will be forthcoming to the General
Committee in June regarding upgrading this crossing given the new Swift
Waters School's impending opening this September.

Mayor Wren announced that subdivision work on Stirling Meadows is
scheduled to begin May 27th and said notification letters have been
distributed to those in the area of construction. He said the developers
expect the road (Dobbie Street) will be reconstructed within 60 days.

As of July 2, 2024, His Worship indicated that southern portions of Ormond
and Orchard Street will transition to one-way streets, with Ormond being

Page 1 of 10

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, May 28, 2024

southbound and Orchard northbound between King Street and Pearl Street
east.

Mayor Wren announced it is national AccessAbility Week and the theme
this year is "Forward Together: Accessibility and Inclusion for All,” which
emphasizes the need for collective efforts to create barrier-free
communities. He welcomed members of the Brockville Municipal
Accessibility Advisory Committee Janet Jones, Chair and Member Greg
Bamber to the meeting.

Disclosure of Interest
Nil.

Adoption of Council Minutes
Moved by: Councillor Hobbs
THAT the minutes of the Council Meeting of May 14, 2024 be adopted and
circulated as read.
CARRIED

Correspondence, Communication and Petitions

1. Appointments to Boards and Committees

Moved by: Councillor Wales

THAT Evan McMurtry be removed from the Heritage Brockville Committee;
and

THAT Winfield Sifton and Carson Dowds be appointed to the Brockville
Railway Tunnel Committee; and

THAT Councillor Severson be appointed to the Arena Advisory Board; and

THAT the necessary by-law be enacted.
CARRIED

Page 2 of 10

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, May 28, 2024

St. John Ambulance Week
St. John Ambulance - D. Brontmire

Moved by: Councillor Deery

THAT the Council of the Corporation of the City of Brockville hereby
proclaim the week of Monday, June 24th to Monday, June 30th, 2024 as
St. John Ambulance Week; and

THAT the St. John Ambulance Flag be flown at Tunnel Bay.
CARRIED

Delegations and Presentations

AccessAbility Week Recognition Event

Council along with members of the Brockville Municipal Accessibility
Advisory Committee recognized Ryan Billing, Brockville Home Health Care,
Cycling Without Age and Paddlers Place for their efforts in reducing
accessibility barriers in the City, in recognition of national AccessAbility
Week.

Staff Reports

For:

Page 3 of 10

2024-106
2023-2026
Council Priorities - Strategic Plan

Moved by: Councillor Fullarton
That the 2023-2026 Strategic Plan be adopted as presented.

Mayor Wren, Councillor Deery, Councillor Earle, Councillor
Fullarton, Councillor Hobbs, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor
Lavergne, Councillor Severson, and Councillor Wales

CARRIED 9-0 on a recorded vote

2024-107
Pre-Competition Camp Bid
IIHF World Junior Hockey Championship

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, May 28, 2024

Moved by: Councillor Kalivas

THAT Council direct staff to apply to Hockey Canada to be a host
‘community for the pre-competition camp for the 2025 World Junior
Championship being held in Ottawa.

For: Mayor Wren, Councillor Deery, Councillor Earle, Councillor
Fullarton, Councillor Hobbs, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor
Lavergne, Councillor Severson, and Councillor Wales
CARRIED 9-0 on a recorded vote

General Committee

Councillor J. Fullarton, Chair
Councillors P. Dery, K. Hobbs, and L. Severson
Meeting held May 21, 2024

General - Consent Agenda

Councillor Severson moved to separate Item 1. Report Number 2024-27
‘Municipal Accommodation Tax Rate Increase.

Moved by: Councillor Fullarton

THAT the following items, as listed on the General Committee agenda are
recommended by the Committee to be passed by Consent Agenda:

For: Mayor Wren, Councillor Deery, Councillor Earle, Councillor
Fullarton, Councillor Hobbs, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor
Lavergne, Councillor Severson, and Councillor Wales
CARRIED 9-0 on a recorded vote

2024-105
Marguerita Residence Corporation
42 Garden St. Project Loan Extension Request

THAT Council receive the letter from the Marguerita Residence Corporation
requesting an extension to the existing construction loan; and

THAT Council approve an extension to December 15, 2024, or 120 days
after the point of Substantial Completion, whichever comes first.

Page 4 of 10

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, May 28, 2024

Page 5 of 10

2024-100
Single Axel Plow Truck

‘THAT Council approve an additional expenditure of $13,591 funded by
debenture, to proceed with the 2024 capital project to purchase a new
single-axel plow truck in accordance with the 2024 Capital Budget; and

THAT Council receive this staff report detailing the procurement method in
accordance with Procurement Policy POL.F.20.139 for information.

2024-90
Options for Arena Canteen Food Services

THAT Council direct staff to develop a detailed operation plan for City staff
operated arena canteens to be presented to the General Committee in
June,

Information Items

THAT the following Items be received:

1. 2024-95
Road Rehabilitation at Various Locations
2. 2024-96
Routing, Cleaning & Sealing Cracks in Asphalt Pavements
3. 2024-97
Traffic Controllers and Detection Devices

City of Brockville

Coun

cil Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, May 28, 2024

General - Regular Agenda

For:

2024-47
Municipal Accommodation Tax
Rate Increase

Moved by: Councillor Fullarton

THAT the Municipal Accommodation Tax (MAT) be increased to 6%
effective January 1st, 2025 on all hotel, motel, lodge, inn, short term
rental accommodations under 30 days and a $6.00 per night MAT for bed
and breakfast establishments.

CARRIED, AS AMENDED ON A LATER VOTE

Amendment to Motion
Moved by: Councillor Severson

THAT the motion to amended to replace 6% with 5%
WITHDRAWN

Amendment to Motion
Moved by: Councillor Hobbs

THAT the motion be amended to remove the $6.00 per night MAT for bed
and breakfast establishments

Mayor Wren, Councillor Dery, Councillor Earle, Councillor
Fullarton, Councillor Hobbs, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor
Lavergne, Councillor Severson, and Councillor Wales

CARRIED 9-0 on a recorded vote

Amended Motion

Page 6 of 10

Moved by: Councillor Fullarton

THAT the Municipal Accommodation Tax (MAT) be increased to 6% effective
January 1st, 2025 on all hotel, motel, lodge, inn, short term rental
accommodations under 30 days; and

THAT Bed and Breakfast establishments be exempt from the Municipal
Accommodation Tax.

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, May 28, 2024

For: Mayor Wren, Councillor Dery, Councillor Fullarton, Councillor
Hobbs, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor Lavergne, Councillor
Severson, and Councillor Wales
Against: Councillor Earle
CARRIED 8-1 on a recorded vote

2024-65
Multi Use Recreational Facility Update

Moved by: Councillor Severson

THAT Council receive staff report 2024-103 Multi-Use Recreational Facility
Update for information; and

THAT staff return to future General Committee meeting with details related
to the Memorial Centre FIT solar program and options to proceed; and

THAT staff return to future General Committee meeting with details related
to potential future uses of the Youth Arena facility.

For: Mayor Wren, Councillor Deery, Councillor Earle, Councillor
Fullarton, Councillor Hobbs, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor
Lavergne, Councillor Severson, and Councillor Wales
CARRIED 9-0 on a recorded vote

2024-79
Winter Classic Proposed Upgrades to the Rotary Outdoor Rink (ODR)

Moved by: Councillor Lavergne

THAT Council approve the proposed upgrades to the Rotary Outdoor Rink
as follows:

1. Installation of rubber matting from the change rooms to the
washrooms

2. Construction of a wheelchair accessible seating area Including
landscaping and lean-to roofing

. Installation of a new score clock

. Installation of access doors on the existing benches

. Improved water service or onsite storage to facilitate future use of
an ice resurfacer

Page 7 of 10

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, May 28, 2024

6. Installation of devices to mitigate problems related to overnight
condensation buildup; and

THAT Council approve that the upgrades be funded by the Winter Classic
Group; and

THAT staff report to Council as required in accordance with the City
Procurement Policy.

For: Mayor Wren, Councillor Dery, Councillor Earle, Councillor
Fullarton, Councillor Hobbs, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor
Lavergne, Councillor Severson, and Councillor Wales
CARRIED 9-0 on a recorded vote

New Business - Report from Members of Council

Nil.
Unfinished Business
Nil.

Emergency Business
Nil.

By-Laws

1. 041-2024

A By-law to Amend 003-2023 Being a By-law to Appoint Members to
Various Boards and Commissions (Heritage/BRTC/AAC)

2. 042-2024
By-law to Remove Block 4, Registered Plan 28M-22, City of Brockville,
County of Leeds, being PIN# 44168-0314(LT), from Part Lot Control - St.
Alban’s

3. 043-2024

By-law to Amend the Brownfields Community Improvement Plan for the

City of Brockville

044-2024

By-law to Amend the Community Improvement Plan for Downtown
Brockville (Priority Area 1) Oxford Avenue

Page 8 of 10

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, May 28, 2024

Reading of the By-Laws

Moved by: Councillor Wales
Seconded by: Councillor Hobbs

THAT By-laws Numbered 041-2024 to 044-2024 be introduced and the
same be now read a first, second and third time, signed by the Mayor and
Clerk, sealed with the Seal of the Corporation and be recorded.

CARRIED

Mayor's Announcements
Media Question Period
Motion to Move into Closed Session
Moved by: Councillor Deery
Seconded by: Councillor Hobbs

THAT pursuant to Municipal Act, 2001, Section 239 Sub. 2 (k), Council resolve
itself Closed Session at 7:47pm, closed to the public to consider: a position, plan,
procedure, criteria or instruction to be applied to any negotiations carried on or to
be carried on by or on behalf of the municipality or local board, specifically

Agreement, TSL.
CARRIED

Closed Meeting Matter
The meeting recessed and resumed at 7:52 pm.
Moved by: Councillor Kalivas

THAT the closed session adjourn and the open session resume at 8:47 pm.
CARRIED

Report of the Closed Session

Mayor Wren reported that the Council met in closed session to discuss matters

pertaining to a position, plan, procedure, criteria or instruction to be applied to any

negotiations carried on or to be carried on by or on behalf of the municipality or

local board, specifically Agreement, TSL and provided instruction/direction to staff.

Page 9 of 10

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, May 28, 2024

Confirmatory By-Law

Moved by: Councillor Wales
Seconded by: Councillor Hobbs

‘THAT By-law Number 045-2024 to confirm the Proceedings of Council at its
meeting held on May 28, 2024 be read a first, second and third time,
signed by the Mayor and Clerk, sealed with the Seal of the Corporation and
be recorded.

CARRIED
Adjournment

THAT Council adjourn its proceedings until the next regular meeting scheduled for

June 11, 2024.
CARRIED

The meeting adjourned at 8:49 pm.

Mayor City Clerk

Page 10 of 10

