City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes

6:00 PM - Tuesday, November 12, 2019
City Hall, Council Chambers

‘The Council meeting was called to order on Tuesday, November 12, 2019, at 6:00
PM, in the City Hall, Council Chambers, with the following present:

Members Mayor Jason Baker, Councillor Leigh Bursey, Councillor Jeff

Present: Earle, Councillor Jane Fullarton, Councillor Larry Journal,
Councillor Mike Kalivas, Councillor Nathalie Lavergne,
Councillor Cameron Wales, and Councillor Matt Wren

Regrets: Nil.

Staff: Lynda Ferguson, Director of Finance, Janette Loveys, City
Manager, Lynn Murray, Deputy City Clerk, and Robert
Nolan, Director of Economic Development

MOTION TO MOVE INTO CLOSED SESSION (5:00 PM)

Moved by: Councillor Kalivas
Seconded by: Councillor Wales

THAT pursuant to Municipal Act, 2001, Section 239 Sub. 2 (b), (4) and (f),
Council resolve itself Closed Session, closed to the public to conside

1. personal matters about an identifiable individual, including municipal or
local board employees;

2. labour relations or employee negotiations;

3. advice that is subject to solicitor-client privilege, including communications
necessary for that purpose;

CARRIED
CLOSED MEETING STAFF REPORTS.
REPORT OF THE CLOSED SESSION
Moved by: Councillor Wren
Seconded by: Councillor Bursey
THAT Council rise from the Closed Session without reporting.
CARRIED

Page 1 of 11

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, November 12, 2019

MAYOR'S REMARKS.

Mayor Baker reminded everyone of the winter weather and road conditions. He
noted that the overnight parking restrictions are now in affect. He cautioned
citizens to take care on the roads as people will walk on the roads when
sidewalks are not as accessible. Mayor Baker stated that homeowners should be
shoveling sidewalks in front of their homes and should not be putting snow out
into the streets.

Mayor Baker listed several events coming up; Downtown Brockville and the City
of Brockville will be holding our annual tree lighting ceremony Friday November
29th at the Fulford Fountain on Courthouse Avenue. Downtown Brockville will be
accepting donations of non-perishable food items for the Food Bank at the
event. In the coming days you will also see King Street looking more festive for
the season. Mayor Baker noted that Downtown Brockville will be completing
their lamp post decoration installation for the season. He added that this is a
Downtown Brockville member driven beautification project and the city thanks
them for their commitment to making the city beautiful during the holiday
season

His Worship announced that the Rotary Club of Brockville annual Santa Claus
parade is November 30th, beginning at 5:00 pm. He also wished to remind
people the Rotary Club is doing their annual Christmas Ham fundraising sale.
Hams can be purchased by contacting a member of the Rotary Club.

Directly following the parade, the City of Brockville in partnership with
Downtown Brockville, and Chamber of Commerce will be flipping the switch on
the River of Lights grand opening event. Expert Contractors who have been
instrumental in the technical side of the event will be on hand accepting
donations to the food bank. River of Lights will run nightly after 5:00 pm
throughout the holiday season. There will be no charge but the first three
Saturday nights in December Kelsey's restaurant staff will be on hand to accept
non-perishable food items for our food bank.

Lastly, Mayor Baker announced that tonight marks the start of our 2020 Budget
process. Council and staff are committed to both improving the budget review
process as well as making the information we see and base our decisions on
more accessible to our ratepayers. In addition, a newly revamped budget
section of the city's website will be a key resource for people who want to follow
the process and will have links to our meeting agendas and minutes. Our
meetings

are open to the public and are also streamed online and carried by YourTV
Cogeco.

Page 2 of 11

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, November 12, 2019

DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST

1. Councillor Wales declared an indirect pecuniary interest on Agenda Item
SLX Residential Attraction as his employer may have a potential pecuniary
interest.

ADOPTION OF COUNCIL MINUTES
Moved by: Councillor Wren
THAT the minutes of the Council Meeting of October 22, 2019 and October 29,
2019 be adopted and circulated as read.
CARRIED

CORRESPONDENCE, COMMUNICATIONS AND PETITIONS
1. National Addictions Awareness Week (Canadian Centre on Substance
Control)

Moved by: Councillor Bursey
THAT City Council declare November 25th to December Ist, 2019 as

National Addictions Awareness Week in the City of Brockville.
CARRIED

Transgendered Day of Remembrance
Moved by: Councillor Bursey
THAT City Council declare November 20th, 2019 as Transgendered Day of

Remembrance in the City of Brockville.
CARRIED

National Housing Day (CMHC)

Moved by: Councillor Bursey
THAT City Council declare November 22nd as National Housing Day in the

City of Brockville.
CARRIED

Page 3 of 11

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, November 12, 2019

Movember
Moved by: Councillor Bursey

THAT City Council declare November 2019 as Movember month in the City
of Brockville; and

THAT the Movember flag be flown from November 18th to December 2nd,
2019.
CARRIED

DELEGATIONS

Page 4 of 11

Wall Street Village Project Update
Bruce Hynes, Chair, Marguerita Residence Corporation

B. Hynes reviewed his presentation for Council.

Riverton Homes
Evan Veenstra

E. Veenstra addressed Council regarding the SLX Residential Attraction
item on this evening’s agenda.

Communities in Bloom - Results Presentation
Ron Dubyk, Communities in Bloom Ontario

‘A. Barabash, Chair of Brockville's Communities in Bloom Committee
introduced R. Dubyk a judge from Communities in Bloom Ontario. R.
Dubyk stated that he was pleased to announce that Brockville had received
5 blooms which is the highest award. He added that Brockville had also
received recognition in three other categories; environmental action, floral
displays and community involvement. A. Barabash declared that at this
point they could possibly go national with the City's support.

Mayor Baker offered gratitude to this Committee and what they have
accomplished. He explained that each year the tulips are pulled the the
late spring to make room for the annual plantings. Mayor Baker said that
this year the Communities in Bloom Committee asked for the tulips, they
sent the flowering portions to retirement and long-term care homes. They
then dried the bulbs over the summer and have since planted the bulbs in
areas along the Brock Trail to be enjoyed in the spring for many years
going forward.

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, November 12, 2019

STAFF REPORTS
1. 2019-166-11

Land Transfer Tax ~

Additional Costs re Tall Ships Transfer

Moved by: Councillor Bursey
Seconded by: Mayor Baker

THAT Council approve the funding of additional land transfer tax regarding
the transfer from Tall Ships Landing Developments Inc. to the City of
Brockville for the Aquatarium building from the Fiscal Policy Reserve for
approximately $33,000.

For: Mayor Baker, Councillor Bursey, Councillor Earle, Councillor
Fullarton, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor Lavergne, Councillor
Wales, and Councillor Wren.

Councillor Journal

Agains!
CARRIED 8-1 on a recorded vote

PLANNING AND OPERATIONS COMMITTEE

Councillor M. Kalivas, Chair
Councillors L. Bursey and C. Wales, Art Koolwine, Citizen Member
Meeting Date November 5, 2019

POC - CONSENT AGENDA.
Moved by: Councillor Kalivas

THAT the following items, as listed on the Planning and Operations Committee
agenda are recommended to be passed by Consent Agenda:

For: Mayor Baker, Councillor Bursey, Councillor Earle, Councillor
Fullarton, Councillor Journal, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor
Lavergne, Councillor Wales, and Councillor Wren

CARRIED 9-0 on a recorded vote

2019-159-11
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014

Page 5 of 11

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, November 12, 2019

9 and 11 Pearl Street East, City of Brockville
Owners: Brent Sydney Irvine, In Trust & 125703 Canada Inc.
Applicant: Annable Designs, Dave Annable

THAT Zoning By-law 050-2014 to rezone lands described as Lots 182 and
183, Block 15, Plan 67, with municipal addresses 9 and 11 Pearl Street
East, from “R4 - General Residential Zone”, to "R4 - General Residential
Special Exception Zone” to permit the construction of a building containing
five (5) apartment dwelling units with a minimum front yard setback of 2.0
metres and minimum interior side yards of 1.5 metres (west) and 2.1
metres (east), in addition to those uses currently permitted, be approve
and,

THAT the necessary by-laws be prepared and enacted at a future Council
meeting,

2019-160-11
Update on Waste Free Ontario Act

THAT Report 2019-160-11, Update on Waste Free Ontario Act be received
for information.

POC - REGULAR AGENDA.

Nil.

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, RECREATION AND TOURISM COMMITTEE

Councillor J. Fullarton, Chair
Councillor M. Wren, J. Barabash and T. Barnes, Citizen Members
Meeting held November 5, 2019

Page 6 of 11

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, November 12, 2019

EDRTC- CONSENT AGENDA

Moved by: Councillor Fullarton
Seconded by: Mayor Baker

THAT the following items, as listed on the Economic Development, Recreation
and Tourism Committee agenda are recommended to be passed by Consent
Agenda:

For: Mayor Baker, Councillor Bursey, Councillor Earle, Councillor
Fullarton, Councillor Journal, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor
Lavergne, Councillor Wales, and Councillor Wren

CARRIED 9-0 on a recorded vote

2. 2019-163-11
Tall Ships Festival

THAT Council receive Report 2019-163-11 2019 Tall Ships Festival; and

THAT the balance of the funds from the 2019 Big River / Tall Ships Festival
be held in Reserve to offset the costs of future Tall Ships and Big River
festivals; and

THAT any expenditure from this reserve be done in consultation with
Council, Staff and the Tall Ships Committee.

THAT Council approve hosting the Tall Ships Festival in 2022 and that the
required US$5,000 deposit be taken from the 2019 Big River / Tall Ships
Festival balance; and

THAT staff be directed to use the new Committee template to develop a
Terms of Reference for the 2022 Tall Ships Festival Committee.

2019-164-11
Big River Festival

THAT Council receive Report 2019-164-11 2019 Big River Festival; and

THAT $7,500 of the funds from the Big River. Tall Ships Festival be
retained ‘in Reserve to fund the 2020 Big River Festival.

Page 7 of 11

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, November 12, 2019

2019-161-11
Contract 2019-36 Thomas Street Seawall & Sidewalk Upgrades

THAT Kehoe Marine Construction Ltd. be awarded the contract for the 2019
seawall and sidewalk upgrades at Thomas Street in the amount of
$550,000 (five hundred and fifty thousand dollars) plus HST for a net cost
of $559,680; and,

THAT the additional funds required of $131,734 be funded from Federal
Gas Tax.

2019-162-11
Brock Trail Lighting Project

THAT the Brock Trail Committee be authorized to undertake a trial project
to install solar powered lights on a section of the Brock Trail; and,

THAT the project be funded from the Brock Trail donations.

EDRTC - REGULAR AGENDA

For:

Page 8 of 11

SLX Residential Attraction

Moved by: Councillor Fullarton

THAT the EDRTC is in support of this concept but would like it to go before
Council on November 12, 2019 to get their support before we ask staff to
negotiate a contract and identify a funding stream to reimburse the
performance; and

That Staff report back to EDRTC in December.

Councillor Fullarton, Mayor Baker, Councillor Bursey, Councillor
Earle, Councillor Journal, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor Lavergne,
and Councillor Wren

CARRIED 8-0 on a recorded vote

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, November 12, 2019

2020 BUDGET

2019-167-11
2020 Pre-budget Overview

Moved by: Councillor Fullarton
Seconded by: Councillor Wales

‘THAT Council receive the 2020 Pre-Budget Overview report for
information.

For: Mayor Baker, Councillor Bursey, Councillor Earle, Councillor
Fullarton, Councillor Journal, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor
Lavergne, Councillor Wales, and Councillor Wren

CARRIED 9-0 on a recorded vote

L. Ferguson, Director of Finance reviewed the 2020 Pre-Budget
presentation.

Councillor Journal was happy to hear that all capital projects will have a
business plan attached to them, he wondered if the incremental items will
as well. J. Loveys responded that yes if there are any incremental items,
they will also have an associated business plan.

Councillor Journal encouraged staff to consider debt decreases and
increase in reserves when they are looking at the long-term financial
planning.

Councillor Journal asked what level of detail will be brought forward at the
beginning of the process. L. Ferguson stated that they will be showing at
least 3 years and the departments will be broken down further in major
categories. Councillor Journal added that he would like to see possible
solutions to mitigate the challenges listed in the presentation.

Councillor Wales stated that he is not sure about the criteria, he felt staff
may be hesitant to bring something forward because it may not fit exactly
into one of the three criteria. J. Loveys replied that the criteria assist in
prioritizing and starting point in Council’s decision making.

Councillor Wren discussed the main sewage pumping station and its poor
report card rating. He wondered what contingencies are in place if there is.
a failure. J. Lovey’s replied that this would be a question for the Capital

Page 9 of 11

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, November 12, 2019

budget discussions and clarified that this Asset Management report card is
from 2016.

Councillor Journal is surprised at the 24% increase for benefits.

Mayor Baker suggested that maybe this is somewhere they need to make
time to review. He added that a public benefit package is much different
than a private package. Many private benefits are a 50/50 split between
the company and the employer.

NEW BUSINESS - REPORT FROM MEMBERS OF COUNCIL
Nil.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS.
Nil.

EMERGENCY BUSINESS.
Nil.

BY-LAWS

084-2019 A By-law to Authorize the Appointment of Municipal Law Enforcement
Officers and Peace Officers as it Applies to the Private Property at
2288 Parkdale Ave and 27 Aldershot Avenue

READING OF THE BYLAWS.

Moved by: Councillor Bursey
Seconded by: Councillor Earle
THAT By-law Numbered 084-2019 be introduced and the same be now read a
first, second and third time, signed by the Mayor and Clerk, sealed with the Seal
of the Corporation and be recorded.

CARRIED

CONFIRMATORY BYLAW

Moved by: Councillor Bursey
Seconded by: Councillor Earle

THAT By-law Number 085-2019 to confirm the Proceedings of Council at its
meeting held on November 12, 2019 be read a first, second and third time,

Page 10 of 11

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, November 12, 2019

signed by the Mayor and Clerk, sealed with the Seal of the Corporation and be
recorded.
CARRIED

MAYOR'S ANNOUNCEMENTS

Mayor Baker encouraged residents to complete the Brockville Transit Survey,
deadlines for submissions are close of business on November 15th, 2019. Paper
copies are available at City Hall and the Public Library, there is also a link to the
survey on the City's website.

MEDIA QUESTION PERIOD
ADJOURNMENT

Moved by: Councillor Bursey
Seconded by: Councillor Earle

THAT Council adjourn its proceedings until the next meeting scheduled for

November 19, 2019
CARRIED

The meeting adjourned at 8:05 pm.

Mayor City Clerk

Page 11 of 11

