City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes
5:30 PM - Tuesday, April 23, 2024
City Hall, Council Chambers

The Council meeting was called to order on Tuesday, April 23, 2024, at 5:30 PM,
in the City Hall, Council Chambers, with the following present:

Mayor Matt Wren, Councillor Philip Dery, Councillor Jeff
Earle, Councillor Jane Fullarton, Councillor Katherine Hobbs,
Councillor Mike Kalivas, Councillor Louise Severson, and
Councillor Cameron Wales

Councillor Nathalie Lavergne

Lynda Ferguson, Director of Finance & IT Services, Sandra
MacDonald, City Manager, Robert Nolan, Director of
Economic and Development Services, Phil Wood, Director of
Operations, Melanie Jones, Director of Fire & Partner
Services, Lindsay Armstrong, Senior Manager of Human
Resources, and Sheena Earl, City Clerk

Motion to Move into Closed Session (4:30 PM)

Moved by: Councillor Fullarton
Seconded by: Councillor Kalivas

THAT pursuant to Municipal Act, 2001, Section 239 Sub. 2 (d and k),
Council resolve itself Closed Session, closed to the public to consider:

1. labour relations or employee negotiations; (contract negotiations)
2. a position, plan, procedure, criteria or instruction to be applied to
any negotiations carried on or to be carried on by or on behalf of the
‘municipality or local board. 2001, c. 25, s. 239 (2); 2017, c. 10,
Sched. 1, s. 26. (negotiations)
CARRIED

Closed Meeting Matter(s)
Land Acknowledgement Statement

Mayor's Remarks

Mayor Wren stated today is Earth Day and noted the annual Community Clean Up
is scheduled to take place this upcoming Saturday, April 27th. He thanked
businesses and volunteers for their commitment to participate in the event and
said there is still time to register at brockvillecleanup.ca.

Page 1 of 14

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, April 23, 2024

His Worship noted Police Week is May 12th to 18th and said this year’s theme is
"Committed to Serving Together". He said efforts are underway to increase the
number of female officers and referred to a "Women in Policing” event hosted by
the Brockville Police Service to take place on May 14th from 6:00 to 8:00 pm at
St. Lawrence College.

With respect to Brockville Tourism, Mayor Wren invited members of the
community to attend the Grand Opening Ceremony of the Visitor Information
Centre now located on the east side of City Hall on Friday, May 3 between 12:00
and 1:00 pm

Mayor Wren offered condolences to the family of retired Police Chief Gerry Curtis
who served forty years with the local police force, noting his role in the
establishment of the Police Service Headquarters on Parkedale Avenue.

His Worship also offered condolences to the family of Mr. John Taylor, local
businessman and community leader. He said Mr. Taylor was the driving force on
the Brock Trail committee, where he served as the Chair, and commented on his
effectiveness to quietly make huge contributions to our city. Mayor Wren said Mr.
Taylor was tremendously skilled at never making any discussions personal and
said he worked hard to contribute to the quality of life in our community, noting he
will be greatly missed

Finally, Mayor Wren extended condolences to colleague and fellow Council member
K. Hobbs on the recent passing of her father.

Mayor Wren announced the Annual Brockville Music Festival which began in 1951
continues this week through to Thursday with a culminating Stars of the Festival
concert to be held on Tuesday, April 30°" at the Brockville Arts Centre.

Councillor Earle joined the meeting at 5:34 pm.

Disclosure of Interest
Nil.

Report of the Closed Session
THAT Council met in closed session to review matters pertaining to labour

relations or employee negotiations; (specifically, contract negotiations) and
provided instruction/direction to staff; and

THAT Council met in closed session to review matters pertaining to a
position, plan, procedure, criteria or instruction to be applied to any
negotiations carried on or to be carried on by or on behalf of the

Page 2 of 14

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, April 23, 2024

‘municipality or local board. 2001, c. 25, s. 239 (2); 2017, ¢. 10, Sched. 1,
s. 26. (specifically, negotiations) and provided instruction/direction to
staff.

Adoption of Council Minutes
Moved by: Councillor Wales
THAT the minutes of the Council Meeting of April 9, 2024 and April 11,
2024 be adopted and circulated as read.
CARRIED

Correspondence, Communication and Petitions

National AccessAbility Week 2024 - May 25 to June 1/24
Brockville Municipal Accessibility Advisory Committee

Moved by: Councillor Severson

THAT the Council of the Corporation of the City of Brockville hereby
proclaim the week of May 26th to June 1st, 2024 as National AccessAbility
Week in the City of Brockville; and

THAT the Brockville Municipal Accessibility flag be flown at Tunnel Bay
from May 27th to June 3rd, 2024.
CARRIED

Menstrual Health Day
The Period Purse

Moved by: Councillor Fullarton

THAT the Council of the Corporation of the City of Brockville hereby
proclaim May 28, 2024 as Menstrual Health Day in the City of Brockville.

CARRIED

Page 3 of 14

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, April 23, 2024

‘Community Living Month
Brockville and Area Community Living Association

Moved by: Councillor Deery

THAT the Council of the Corporation of the City of Brockville proclaim the

month of May as Community Living Month in the City of Brockville.
CARRIED

Delegations

Mirabel Consulting Inc.
86 John St. - Development Proposal

A. Hamilton was unable to attend.
Staff Reports
2024-86

Additional Required Components
Brockville Railway Tunnel

Moved by: Councillor Hobbs

THAT Council authorize the purchase of additional tunnel lighting
components in the amount of $300,229.20 include net HST; and

THAT Council approve funding this expense through reserves; and

THAT staff be directed to bring reports to the General Committee detailing
remedial, short turn-around solutions to improve the longevity problems of
lighting system equipment and further comprehensive long-term solutions
intended to resolve chronic lighting system problems.

For: Mayor Wren, Councillor Deery, Councillor Fullarton, Councillor
Hobbs, and Councillor Wales
Against: Councillor Earle, Councillor Kalivas, and Councillor Severson
CARRIED 5-3 on a later recorded vote

Page 4 of 14

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, April 23, 2024

Motion to Amend
Moved by: Councillor Severson

THAT this item be referred to staff pending additional information to be
provided at the May 14th Council meeting.

For: Councillor Earle, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor Severson, and
Councillor Wales
Against: Mayor Wren, Councillor Dery, Councillor Fullarton, and Councillor
Hobbs
DEFEATED 4-4 on a recorded vote

Council recessed at 6:55 pm. Councillor Severson left the meeting at 7:02 pm.

The meeting resumed at 7:16 pm.

Planning and Development Committee

Councillor M. Kalivas, Chair
Councillors J. Earle, N. Lavergne, and C. Wales, Citizen Member A.
Koolwine

Meeting held April 2, 2024

PDC - Regular Agenda
1. 2024-40
Zoning By-law Amendment, 86 John Street

Moved by: Councillor Deery

THAT Zoning By-law 050-2014 be amended for lands described as Part of
Lot 13, Block 35, Plan 67, City of Brockville, municipally known as 86 John
Street, to rezone the lands from "R4-General Residential" Zone, subject
to "Source Water Protection” considerations to "R4-General Residential
Special Exception Zone", subject to "Source Water Protection!
considerations.

THAT the necessary by-laws, be enacted.

Page 5 of 14

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, April 23, 2024

For: Mayor Wren, Councillor Dery, Councillor Earle, Councillor
Fullarton, Councillor Hobbs, Councillor Kalivas, and Councillor
Wales

CARRIED 7-0 on a later recorded vote
Motion to Amend
Moved by: Councillor Kalivas

THAT the motion be amended to provide temporary zoning for the co-living units
for a period of three years.

For: Councillor Earle, Councillor Fullarton, Councillor Kalivas,
Mayor Wren, Councillor Dery, Councillor Hobbs, Councillor Wales,
DEFEATED 4-3 on a recorded vote

2. 2024-60
Proposed Amendments to the Official Plan and Zoning By-law
36-46 King Street West

Moved by: Councillor Kalivas

THAT Official Plan Amendment No. 34 respecting lands described as Lots 1
& 2 and Part of Lot 17, Block 31, Plan 67, with municipal address of 36-46
ing Street West, be amended, to: Redesignate the property from
‘Downtown and Central Waterfront Area” within the "Mixed-Use Node”,
subject to "Main Street Area” policies, "Continuous Street Frontage”
policies and "Source Water Protection” considerations to "Downtown and
Central Waterfront Site-Specific Policy Area” within the "Mixed-Use Node”,
subject to "Main Street Area” policies, "Continuous Street Frontage”
policies and “Source Water Protection” considerations; Identify a maximum
of 9 storeys, within the "Skyline Development Area"; and, Permit a
maximum encroachment of 2.0 metres into the angular plane.

THAT Zoning By-law 050-2014, be amended, to rezone lands described as
Lots 1 & 2 and Part of Lot 17, Block 31, Plan'67, with municipal address
36-46 King Street West, from "MD-11-Mixed Use Downtown Special
Exception Zone”, subject to "Minimum 2 Storey Building Height at Street
Edge” policies, "Maximum Building Height - 6 Storeys” policies,
“Continuous Street Frontage” policies and "Source Water Protection”
considerations, to a new "MD-Mixed Use Downtown Special Exception
Zone" subject to subject to "Minimum 2 Storey Building Height at Street

Page 6 of 14

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, April 23, 2024

Edge” policies, "Continuous Street Frontage” Policies and "Source Water
Protection” considerations to allow redevelopment of the property for a
mixed-use building containing 66 apartment dwellings and to establish
site-specific development standards.

“That the recommended zone of "MD-21 Zone (36-46 King Street West)”
as presented in Report 2024-60 be amended to "H6-MD-21 Zone (36-46
King Street West)” and that wording be applied to the zone that requires
any/all cash-in-lieu of parking payments, as determined at a future date
by Council, if applicable, be paid prior to the "H6" holding symbol being
removed.”

For: Mayor Wren, Councillor Deery, Councillor Fullarton, Councillor
Hobbs, Councillor Kalivas, and Councillor Wales
Councillor Earle

CARRIED 6-1 on a recorded vote

General Committee
Councillor J. Fullarton, Chair
Councillors P. Dery, K. Hobbs, and L. Severson
Meeting held April 16, 2024

General - Consent Agenda

All matters listed under Consent Agenda are considered to be routine and
will be enacted by one motion. Should a Council member wish an
alternative action from the proposed recommendation, the Council
member shall request that this matter be moved to “separate” the item.

Moved by: Councillor Fullarton

THAT the following items, as listed on the General Committee agenda are
recommended by the Committee to be passed by Consent Agenda:

For: Mayor Wren, Councillor Dery, Councillor Fullarton, Councillor
Hobbs, Councillor Kalivas, and Councillor Wales

Against: Councillor Earle
CARRIED 6-1 on a recorded vote

Page 7 of 14

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, April 23, 2024

Page 8 of 14

2024-66
2023 Annual Report - Brockville Museum,

THAT the Brockville Museum 2023 Annual Report be received for
information.

2024-78
Sabre Jet Memorial Restoration
Option to Proceed

THAT a contract with Bulldog Commercial Restoration and Waterproofing
Inc. be approved in an amount of $60,040 to complete an in-situ
restoration and reinforcement of the existing Sabre Jet concrete pedestal
structure; and

THAT up to $50,000 of tax levy funding be reassigned from the Laurier M6
Soccer/Rugby Pitch to the Sabre Jet project; and

THAT $50,000 of CCBF funding be approved to fund the Laurier M6
Soccer/Rugby Pitch; and

THAT $25,144 be funded from the Fiscal Policy Reserve; and
THAT staff be authorized to proceed with planning and implementation of

renovation and improvement to the Sabre Jet memorial esthetic in
accordance with the design presented by the Sabre Jet committee.

2024-32
Building Condition Assessment Fire Station 1

THAT Council authorize a feasibility study of Fire Station No. 1 with EFI
Engineering to be funded by the Fire Marque Reserve.

2024-50
Negative Social Media Statement

THAT staff be directed to post the Negative Social Media statement to the
City's Website.

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, April 23, 2024

Page 9 of 14

2024-46
Delegation of Authority for S. 357(1)(d.1) Tax Relief Applications

THAT Council delegates its authority for the processing of applications
under Section 357(1)(d.1) to the Assessment Review Board (ARB); and

THAT the necessary by-law be enacted.

2024-67
2024 Provincial Budget Highlights

THAT report 2024-67 be received for information; and

THAT a resolution be sent to the Province to recommence property tax
reassessment.

2024-75
Report to Establish Two 15 Minute Parking Spaces
Market Street East (Tourism Visitor Centre)

THAT City Council authorize the establishment of two 15 minute parking
spaces on the west side of Market Street East in front of the Visitor Centre;
and

THAT Schedule 5 subsection 74 of the Parking By-law 119-89 be amended
accordingly.

2024-76
Municipal Access Agreement
Xplore Inc.

THAT the Mayor and City Clerk be authorized to enter into a Municipal
Access Agreement with Xplore Inc. for the installation and maintenance of
utility infrastructure to be located on a municipal right-of-way.

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, April 23, 2024

10.

ul.

12.

Page 10 of 14

2024-77
Centennial Road and Stewart Boulevard
Cold-in-Place Rehabilitation

‘THAT the tender for Cold-in-Place (CIP) Recycling and Hot Mix Paving from
R.W. Tomlinson LTD. in the amount of $964,437.08 (including net HST) be
approved; and

‘THAT additional funding be approved in the amount of $150,000 (including
net HST) from the surplus in the 2023 Cold-in-Place Recycling and Hot Mix
Paving budget.

2024-81
WPCC - Digester #1 Mixer Rebulld

THAT funding of up to $30,000 be approved for the purchase and
installation of a new bearing cartridge kit and PCD gasket with shims
required to repair the Water Pollution Control Centre’s digester mixer; and

THAT the $30,000 be funded from the Wastewater Working Capital
Operations Reserve.

2024-82
WPCC - Programmable Logic Controller Siemens Module

THAT funding of up to $10,000 be approved for the purchase and
installation of a Siemens Programmable Logic Controller module from
ExcelPro; and

THAT the $10,000 be funded from Wastewater Working Capital Operations
Reserve.

2024-68
Multi-Use Recreational Facility Update

THAT a change order in the amount of $276,214 reflecting the modified
designer fee schedule be approved and funded by the Arena Reserve fund.

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, April 23, 2024

13.

Page 11 of 14

Review of the Ontario Works and Ontario Disability Support Program
Financial Assistance Rates
Councillor Severson

WHEREAS poverty is taking a devastating toll on communities,
undermining a healthy and prosperous Ontario, with people in receipt of
Ontario Works and Ontario Disability Support Program being
disproportionately impacted;

WHEREAS the cost of food, housing, medicine, and other essential items
have outpaced the highest inflation rates seen in a generation;

WHEREAS people in need of social assistance have been legislated into
poverty, housing insecurity, hunger, poorer health, their motives
questioned, and their dignity undermined;

WHEREAS Ontario Works (OW) Financial Assistance rates have been frozen
since 2018 ($733 per month);

WHEREAS Ontario Disability Support Program (ODSP) benefit rates have
been increased by 6.5 per cent as of July 2023 to keep up with inflation,
however even with the increase, ODSP rates stil fall below their value in
2018 ($1,376 when adjusted for inflation) and significantly below the
disability-adjusted poverty line ($3,091 per month)

WHEREAS OW and ODSP rates do not provide sufficient income for a basic
standard of living and, as a result, hundreds of thousands of people across
Ontario who rely on these programs live in poverty;

WHEREAS designated Service Managers are doing their part, but do not
have the resources, capacity, or tools to provide the necessary income and
health related supports to people experiencing poverty; and

WHEREAS leadership and urgent action is needed from the Provincial
Government to immediately develop, resource, and implement a
comprehensive plan to address the rising levels of poverty in Ontario, in
particular for those on Ontario Works and Ontario Disability Support
Programs;

‘THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the Council of the City of Brockville
Joins Prince Edward County to call on the Provincial Government to
urgently:

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, April 23, 2024

14.

Page 12 of 14

a) At least double Ontario Works and ODSP rates and index rates to
inflation, answering calls already made by “Raise the Rates” campaign and
the "Income Security Advocacy Centre”;

b) Commit to ongoing cost of living increases above and beyond the rate of
inflation to make up for the years they were frozen;

) Commit to jointly working between the Ministry of Children, Community,
and Social Services and the Ministry of Health on the best methods of
assessing client needs and then matching those in need to the services
they require;

AND FURTHER THAT a copy of this resolution be sent to the Minister of
Children, Community, and Social Services, the Minister of Health, the
Minister of Municipal Affairs and Housing, the Association of Municipalities
of Ontario, the Ontario Municipal Social Services Association, Lanark Leeds
and Grenville Social Services, the Eastern Ontario Wardens Caucus.

Fire Apparatus
Mayor Wren

WHEREAS apparatus and equipment are directly tied to the delivery of fire
protection services as authorized by Council; and

WHEREAS the life span of fire apparatus, specifically pertaining to the
replacement of fire trucks due to insurance requirements; and

WHEREAS the Fire Underwriters Survey (FUS) is a provider of data,
underwriting, risk management and legai/regulatory services focusing on
‘community fire-protection and fire prevention systems in Canada,
establishing apparatus replacement schedules based on safety and risk
mitigation practices;

‘THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT the Council of the City of Brockville
direct the Mayor draft a letter to Fire Underwriters Survey (FUS)
requesting the creation of a new community fire-protection and fire
prevention insurance system that does not put all municipalities under the
same umbrella, with distinct categories for rural and urban municipalities;
and

THAT this resolution be sent to Premier Doug Ford, the Honourable David
Piccini, Minister of Labour, Immigration, Training and Skills Development,
Paul Calandra, Minister of Municipal Affairs and Housing requesting a
response on this matter within 30 days of receipt; and

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, April 23, 2024

THAT this resolution be shared with The Federation of Canadian
Municipalities (FCM), The Association of Municipalities Ontario (AMO), and
The Eastern Ontario Wardens’ Caucus (EOWC).

New Business - Report from Members of Council

Nil.
Unfinished Business
Nil.

Emergency Business
Nil.

By-Laws

1. 031-2024

Being a By-law to Appoint James Bellemore, Marietta Weber, Nicole
Howard, Scott Swayn and Tanya Rogerson as a Municipal Law Enforcement
Officer for the City of Brockville

032-2024
A By-law to Authorize the Appointment of Municipal Law Enforcement
Officers and Peace Officers as it Applies to the Private Property of 6 Broad
Street (Aquatarium) & St Andrews Street Lot

Reading of the By-Laws

Moved by: Councillor Deery
Seconded by: Councillor Wales

THAT By-laws Numbered 031-2024 and 032-2024 be introduced and the
same be now read a first, second and third time, signed by the Mayor and
Clerk, sealed with the Seal of the Corporation and be recorded.

CARRIED

Confirmatory By-Law

Moved by: Councillor Deery
Seconded by: Councillor Wales

THAT By-law Number 033-2024 to confirm the Proceedings of Council at its

meeting held on April 23, 2024 be read a first, second and third time,
signed by the Mayor and Clerk, sealed with the Seal of the Corporation and

Page 13 of 14

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, April 23, 2024

be recorded
CARRIED

Mayor's Announcements

Media Question Period

Adjournment

Moved by: Councillor Deery
Seconded by:Councillor Wales

THAT Council adjourn its proceedings until the next regular meeting
scheduled for May 14, 2024,
CARRIED

The meeting adjourned at 8:30 pm.

Mayor City Clerk

Page 14 of 14

