City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes

6:00 PM - Tuesday, February 21, 2023
Hybrid/Virtual Meeting

The Council meeting was called to order on Tuesday, February 21, 2023, at 6:00
PM, in the Hybrid/Virtual Meeting, with the following present:

Mayor Matt Wren, Councillor Philip Dery, Councillor Jeff
Earle, Councillor Jane Fullarton, Councillor Katherine Hobbs,
Councillor Nathalie Lavergne, and Councillor Cameron Wales

Councillor Mike Kalivas and Councillor Louise Severson

Cassidy Cameron, Committee Assistant, Lynda Ferguson,
Director of Finance & IT Services, and Sandra MacDonald,
City Manager/City Clerk

LAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT STATEMENT
MAYOR'S REMARKS.

Mayor Wren passed along regrets from Councillor Severson and Councillor Kalivas
who were unable to attend the meeting and noted that Councillor Earle will arrive
late. He wished a happy birthday to Councillor Lavergne.

His Worship congratulated the Brockville Winter Classic Committee for their
successful Winter Classic Weekend. He noted the hard work that goes into these
events and that they are appreciated by all. Special thanks were given to the
committee members, sponsors, donors, participants, and staff at the City of
Brockville who supported the event.

Additionally, there was a reminder given to all residents about winter parking
restrictions as heavy snowfall is expected. If a significant weather event is
declared, on street parking will be prohibited between the hours of 11:00 pm to
7:00 pm.

DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST
Nil.

ADOPTION OF COUNCIL MINUTES
Nil.

CORRESPONDENCE, COMMUNICATIONS AND PETITIONS
Nil.
DELEGATIONS
Nil.

Page 1 of 17

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, February 21, 2023

STAFF REPORTS

Nil.

BUDGET

Page 2 of 17

2023-28

2023 Budget

Community Partners

Brockville National Day for Truth and Reconciliation Handout

‘Sherwood Park Manor Presentation
Sherwood Park Manor Case Summary
Moved by: Councillor Deery
THAT report 2023-28, 2023 Budget Community Partners be received; and
THAT Council provide City staff direction with respect to each funding
request.

TABLED
ArtsHub Brockville - Pat Markovich

Aquatarium - Thomas Harder, Executive Director

Physician Recruitment - Brockville General Hospital - Nick Vlacholias, BGH
President and CEO, and Lesley White, City of Brockville Manager of
Business Engagement and Partnerships

The meeting recessed at 6:48 pm
The meeting resumed at 6:59 pm

Cataraqui Regional Conservation Authority ~ Katrina Furlanetto, General
Manager

Brockville National Day for Truth and Reconciliation - Deanna Garton
A copy of the handout is attached to the minutes.

Councillor Earle joined the meeting (7:31 pm)

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, February 21, 2023

Brockville Police Services - Mark Noonan, Chief of Police and King Yee,
Chair of the Police Services Board

Brockville Public Library ~ Geraldine Slark, CEO and Margaret Wicklum,
Chair of Brockville Public Library Board

Downtown Brockville - Jasmine Jasani, Executive Director of the DBIA
Frontenac Arch Biosphere ~ Julie Servant, Executive Director

‘Sherwood Park Manor - Alfred O'Rourke, Executive Director and Ken
Durand, Chair

A copy of the presentation is attached to the minutes.

NEW BUSINESS - REPORT FROM MEMBERS OF COUNCIL
Nil.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS.
Nil.

EMERGENCY BUSINESS.
Nil.

BY-LAWS
Nil.

CONFIRMATORY BYLAW

Moved by: Councillor Earle
Seconded by: Councillor Lavergne

THAT By-law Number 016-2023 to confirm the Proceedings of Council at its

meeting held on February 21, 2023 be read a first, second and third time, signed

by the Mayor and Clerk, sealed with the Seal of the Corporation and be recorded.
CARRIED

MAYOR'S ANNOUNCEMENTS
His Worship mentioned the Palliative Care Telethon is this weekend, noting it is the
40th and final event. Saturday will be on the radio and Sunday will be at the Arts

Centre, concluding around 6:00 pm. Councillor Earle also added that there is an
online auction in support of this event, hosted by Hands Auction.

Page 3 of 17

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, February 21, 2023
MEDIA QUESTION PERIOD

ADJOURNMENT

Moved by: Councillor Earle
Seconded by: Councillor Lavergne

THAT Council adjourn its proceedings until the next regular meeting scheduled

for February 28, 2023.
CARRIED

The meeting adjourned at 10:22 pm.

Mayor City Clerk

Page 4 of 17


FUTURE REDEVELOPMENT AND EXPANSION PROJECT
FOR SHERWOOD PARK MANOR

February, 2023


Sherwood Park Ma

Part of the Brockville community for almost 50 years and over 50% of
its residents come from Brockville

a 107 bed not-for-profit, non-municipal Long Term Care Home founded
in 1974 by the two community hospitals

Does not receive supplemental municipal funding each year to
subsidize ongoing operating costs

Provides well paying jobs for 130 skilled staff, many of whom live and
shop in Brockville


Why We Need to Revitalize Our Facility

= While Sherwood Park Manor has always provided compassionate,
attentive care, the past two years have highlighted the need for
improvement in our centre.

In 2022, Sherwood Park Manor received a preliminary allocation letter
from the Ministry Long-Term Care (MLTC) to add 21 new beds and
upgrade our existing beds and rooms in our facility. With public support
to supplement government funding, we will be able to offer more care
in Brockville!

Our new facility will meet and exceed all modern building standards.
The building will be “pandemic proofed”, using distinct ventilation
large outbreaks throughout the facility. This will

allow families and Sherwood Park Manor volunteers to safely enter
ites to visit their loved ones.


The need for newer, more modern, up-to-date facilities and services are of
utmost importance to Brockville seniors and their loved ones.

A recent Market Feasibility Study found that by 2024, an additional 244
seniors’ apartments, assisted living suites, and severe memory care
suites will be needed to serve the growing senior population of Brockville
and surrounding areas.

These needs can be almost entirely met by Sherwood Park Manor's

__ proposed expansions and improvements.
Sa


Redevelopment Project

*

*

Total cost $35M
RBC $27M
Community support $5M
Provincial government $3M

"= RBC = Province = Community


Highlights from Campaign Feasibility Study

= About 90% of interviewees indicated that Sherwood Park's reputation
was Excellent or Good.

= 64% of interviewees believe the community-at-large will respond
positively to support the Capital Campaign.

= 31% of businesses would be willing to donate to the campaign

= 54% of individuals would be willing to donate to the campaign

Economic Benefit of SPM Development

= An Anchor Institution

= Acommunity that provides for its seniors can build long-term prosperity
with a healthier population.

= An Employer

= Direct and indirect creation of jobs (construction and post
construction)

= Community Contributor
= Avital entity whose employees contribute greatly to local community
Benefits _


What people are saying about SPM

“The education, experience, dedication and professionalism shown by nursing
staff are the reasons Sherwood Park Manor is thought of in the Brockville
community as the best long-term care residence.”

“Thank you so much to everyone who lovingly cared for my precious mother
during her stay at Sherwood. Thank you to the residents for their friendship. Our
lives became richer as they shared stories of their lives - such wonderful loving
people! May all the goodness that Sherwood shares with others come back to you
in countless ways!”

“We are so blessed and lucky to call Sherwood Park Manor our mother’s last
___-home- My family are truly amazed at the kindness and smiles shown to everyone
during this difficult last year with the COVID threat. Thank you and yo!


An Investment in Senior Care

——

$1 Million


Questions?

HERWOOD PARK ‘Rec orale Wh,

‘Sherwood Pak Marr sol prove a cite and environmen that suppdts
MANOR ‘everyone's poten, autonomy are quali of Life

Choice; Clubrsn;Canpsson; Prolessonalm, Respect and Safely.

\ ~ Long Term Care Residence

Redevelopment Project ~ Case Summary

Statement
‘The Ontario Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care has approved Sherwood Park
Manor's application to redevelop its long-term care beds by upgrading the existing 75
and adding 21 new beds.

About Us

For over 50 years, Sherwood Park Manor - a non-profit and charitable organization -
has been partnering with the community to provide the most exacting standards of
comfort, convenience, treatment, and safety in the province.

‘The Sherwood Park Manor Auxiliary, our partners, and volunteers have helped us to
make an outstanding contribution to the quality of le for all our residents. Together we
have continued to grow and innovate to better meet the needs of our Manor's
‘community.

Providing Quality Long-Term Care
’As the province's demographics change and the needs of residents in long-term care
become more diverse and complex, Ontario's long-term care system has become
strained, putting additional pressure on the province's health care system, and leaving
people waiting too long forthe care they need

‘The Long-Term Care Development Program, designed to support the Government's
infrastructure and development goals, is prioritizing the following program objectives
with the goal to better meet growing demand for long-term care, improve resident
experience, quality of care and restore the public's trust and confidence in the system.

We are undertaking a campaign that will enable Sherwood Park Manor to enter into our
next phase of development. New and redeveloped beds built to modern design
standards will build capacity, improve quality of care, and provide a safe and secure
environment for residents and staff. In addition, the new and redeveloped beds will help
increase access to long-term care, reduce waitists, and alleviate hospital and broader
health system capacity pressures.

Page 16 of 17

‘ANew Sherwood Park Manor
‘We anticipate that redeveloping the Sherwood Park Manor facility will be a $33 million
Project to upgrade our home, meet new standards for care, and address rising demand
and capacity challenges,

‘Our plan is to add 21 new beds to the site and upgrade the other 75 beds and rooms,
as they do not meet the new modern code for building standards. Sherwood Park
‘Manor is committed to continuing to provide a high level of service. We also want to
ensure that we offer improved services to residents that add to their quality of if,

For our community, Sherwood Park Manor is not just a place to live —itis a vibrant
‘community. To continue to cultvate our community, Sherwood Park Manor is planning a
$5 millon Capital Campaign to fund these new additions.

Join Us
We wish to extend our gratitude to the Sherwood Park Manor community for your
continuing support. For more than 50 years, you have generously supported our
organization through direct contributions and volunteerism. These contributions have
had an enormously posttive impact on the residents and families that depend on
Sherwood Park Manor.

‘Our work must continue. We want to ensure that Sherwood Park Manor remains.
resilient and responsive to future challenges while providing seamless, outstanding
care. As we build the plans for Sherwood Park Manor's expansion and upgrades, we
are looking to our community for advice and feedback

‘With your support, we can continue our legacy of quality care, provide a fulling and
<lignified experience for our elders, and build resilionce forthe future.

Page |20f2

Page 17 of 17

