Your Worship and members of council

‘The local economic situation has gone from bad to worse.
Job security and consumer confidence are at an alltime low.
InJuly 2012 our Federal Finance Minister tightened the rules for mortgage lending.

Last week we requested copies of the previous Development Charges studies to review
prior to this meeting, as well as the G/L showing revenue and expenditures associated
with the Development Charges reserve fund

We have not received them or know when we will have access to them, but they are
‘essential to this discussion, as they would have provided us with information to form
the basis of having a productive meeting this evening.

For Madam Planner: What is the purpose of impost fees? And which subdivisions
have them?

For Madame Planner: Are Development Charges planned for MacCready Vilage?

For Madame Planner: Knowing the builders/developers position, why did we not
meet to discuss this matter in a neutral environment?

Q. For Madame Planner: How much money does the city provide the developer to put in
sewers, roads and sidewalks in a new subdivision outside of the downtown core?

Q For Madame Planner: How much money or credit does a developer have to provide
to the city prior to the start of building houses in a new subdivision?

‘The Brockville Builders Group respectfully make the following suggestions to Brockville
‘City Council to provide a more sustainable and balanced local economy

1. Divert funds allocated for a Development charges study towards an Employment
Lands Study and a Regional Development Study. [See attached Schedule “D"}

2. Contact our neighboring municipalities and begin the process of discussing how
to mutually create the framework for regional economic growth and future
prosperity for this region.

3. Defer the vote on a Development Charges Study until May 2013, to allow a
‘meeting with the Developers, and also assess the local economic climate at that
time,

Thank you for your cooperation! B8Group

Submission from the Brockville Builders Group
Schedule of Documents
With respect to Development Charges
Being submitted to

Brockville City Council meeting, Tuesday, December 11", 2012

‘Schedule “A"- Canadian Homebuilders Builders Association

“Government imposed Costs Impact Affordability”

‘Schedule “B’- Ministry of Community Safety and Correctional Services
‘Ontario Smoke Alarm Status in Residential Fires

Schedule “C” -Executive Summary Backgrounder
‘The Costs of Sprawi Considered
‘What the Data Actually Show

‘Schedule ”D”- Glen Schnarr -Sustainable Halton Working Paper
This is offered to show 2 Things
1. The importance of employment lands
2. Hemson Consultants data has been challenged previously

‘Schedule “E" -Copy of our [Brockville Bullders] discussion points and suggestions

Housing Affordability and
Choice for Canadians:
Building on Success

Government-Imposed Costs Impact
Housing Affordability

ity indicate that, for

‘a whole,
affordability is reasonably
(900d ~ not as good as
during the late 1990s and
early 2000s, but better than
2007-2008.

Percent of Average Family Income Required to Service Analyses of homeownership
‘Mortgage on Average Priced Resale Home atfordabi

‘The percent of average
family income required to
service the mortgage

CVEPEVAVHTTRTETTENVIG] | lemenmome

Sem mraresserecensenpeaaram ara tera changes in the abllty of
iunsienomnssinatss {ypical fami to purchase a
home over time,

‘The key elements in the calculation are family incomes (which typically rise slowly over
time), house prices (which are affected mainly by changes in the cost of land and
building a home), and mortgage interest rates (which vary significantly from yearto year,
‘depending on the overall economic situation),

Using this type of analysis, it appears that homeownership affordability in Canada should
‘not be a major source of concer.

But this is the wrong conclusion.

‘The ‘reasonably good’ affordabilty situation at present is due to record low mortgage
Interest rates — which will nt prevail over the longer-term

‘The average 5-year posted mortgage interest rate over the 1991-2012 period was 7 5%
= well above the current 5.2% rate. When, inevitably, interest rates rise to more normal
levels, affordability wil deteriorate significantly

Canadian Home Bulders' Association Government-Imposed Costs
‘Summer, 2012 Page 1 of4


The real situation with respect to homeownership affordability in Canada is very
‘much different from that presented in current affordability analyses.

Removing the impact of
interest rates from the
calculation ilustrates the fact
that current analyses mask a
significant deterioration in
affordability in recent years,

| Percent of Average Family Income Required to Service
‘Mortgage on Average Priced Resale Home
(Constant 7.5% Mortgage Interest Rato)

‘This chart shows the percent
cof average family income
required to service the
payments on an average-
priced home at @ constant
7.5% mortgage interest

= the average rate forthe
1991-2011 period,

secacuneeug

BEEREEREEREEEEEERR RRR AE
This removes the effect on
the affordabilty analysis ofthe current historically low interest rates. The current rates
result from the extremely accommodative monetary policy measures aimed at
‘addressing the sluggish economic recovery and continuing uncertainties in the world
financial system.

Clearly, when interest rates rise to more normal levels, the abiity of potential home
‘buyers to purchase a home will deteriorate markedly.

Key Facts

‘The deterioration in homeownership affordability over the past decade is due to the
significant increases in housing prices over the past several years ~ pice rises driven, in
prt, by inexorably rising government.imposed costs and more burdensome regulation.

‘This deterioration, at atime when mortgage interest rates are being held at extremely
low levels because of concems about economic growth, calls for carifcation of the
concept of homeownership affordabilty:

‘There used to be a clear understanding of the differences between ‘homeownership
affordabilly’ and homeownership accessibility’

‘+ Homeownership affordability is determined by housing prices in relation to income
levels;

‘+ Homeownership accessibility refers to the availabilty of financing and related
‘mechanisms, and is determined by interest rates, downpayment requirements,
gross-debt-service ratios, and other borrowing conditions.

‘Canadian Home Bulders' Association Government imposed Costs,
‘Summer, 2012 Page 2of4

Given the current record low interest rates, access to homeownership is extremely
positive. However, overall affordably levels, as measured by the share of income
‘equired to purchase an average home, have worsened markedly.

Rising housing prices, based on ever more costly and complex government regulation,
‘and ever increasing government levies, fees, charges and taxes, have caused an
‘extremely serious deterioration in homeownership affordability.

Rising govemment-
Governmentimposed Charges as Percent of Price mandated costs contin to
“Modest Single-Detached Dwellings 2068 be a signifcant threat fo

homeownership affordability.

In particular, incweased
‘municipal charges
(especally development cost
‘charges = DCCs) are raising
costs for home builders
with follow-on impacts on
‘housing prices and
homeownership affordabiity.

‘When municipalities impose
DCCs on new homebuyers,
they effectively transfer
‘public sector debt into
household mortgages, which

‘cause for concern
froma pte poy
perspective.

Examination into
Government Imposed
Charges on New Housing
Construction, a study
‘conducted for CMHC,
sone geanguondgennatnmacouertninannmamaer | documented the total
beamed ‘municipal charges for typical
‘modest dwelings in 21
‘municipalities across Canada in 2009. According tothe study, municipal government
imposed charges on typical new houses range from over $50,000 in Surrey, B.C. and
‘$48,000 in Vaughan, Ontario, to less than $6,000 in some smaller centres in the country.

‘The CMHC study also showed that these charges have increased significantly over the
bat decade, in many commuries, charges have een substantly sce the 2009
y.

‘Also, some taxes, such as the GSTIHST and land transfer taxes, are applied tothe price
‘of ahome. Since municipal charges, such as DCCs, are built into the price of a new
home, there isa significant element of pyramiding (tax on tax) inthe application of
these taxes on new homes.

Canadian Home Buller’ Associaton Governmentnposed Costs
Summer, 2012 Page Sof 4

‘Adding the federal and provincial taxes to municipal charges raises the burden on new
homes to over $80,000 in several municipalities ~ and almost $100,000 in Vancouver.
‘Municipal, provincial and federal government.imposed charges totaled over 10% of the
Price of a new house in most municipalites. In several cases, the charges accounted for
19% or more of the price of a new house,

‘The costs associated with levies, fees, charges and taxes are passed on to purchasers
through higher housing prices.

‘The fact that the GST rebate phase-out thresholds have been frozen forthe past two
decades is another serious impediment to housing affordably, The threshold at which
the federal GST New Housing Rebate begins to be phased out is currently $350,000.
‘The rebate disappears entirely at $450,000. This important measure of tax rele is
effectively being phased out overtime because the price thresholds, especially in
Canada's most costly urban centres, have been overtaken by rising housing prices.

What should be done?

‘The CHBA urges that the federal government pursue consultations with provincial
{governments on a national plan to address the deterioration in housing affordability as a
‘matter of urgency. The Canadian economy and society are singularly not prepared for
the very large impact of higher interest rates on the abilty of young Canadians to pursue
their dream of purchasing a home.

‘Canadian Home Bullers' Association Govemment-Imposed Costs
‘Summer, 2012 Page 4 of 4

Ministry of Community Safety and Correctional Services
Smoke Alarm Status in Home Fires

Ontario Smoke Alarm Status in Residential Fires

This summary provides information on smoke alarm status and operation in Ontario
residential fires from 2007 to 2011.

1991 Canadian Mortgage and Housing Corp (1991) reports:

“In 1987, 277 people died in fires in one and two family dwellings across the country - the
vast majority of them in homes built before 1980.... In fact, since the total number of homes
had grown, this represents a drop In fire deaths to 4.5 per 100,000 homes in 1987 from 7.9
in 1980. There are a number of reasons for this improvement in safety... but is generally
agreed that one major difference is the advent of inexpensive battery-operated and wired in
place smoke alarms. New homes, which have been required by bullding codes to have
‘mandatory wired in smoke alarms since early in the 1980's, are much safer (estimated 1.4
deaths per 100,000) than the general housing stock.”

1975 - Ontario homes required to have smoke alarms outside sleeping areas.
1980 - Ontario fire death rate 30.9 per million population.

1990 - Statistics Canada survey reports 85% of homes have smoke alarms.

1990 - Ontario fire death rate 13.9 per million population.

1996 - Canadian Safety Council survey reports 95% of homes in Canada have smoke alarms.
1996 - Ontario fire death rate 11.5 ~ down 62% from 1980.

2005 - Ontario fire death rate 6.8 - down 41% from 1996

March 2006 ~ smoke alarms required on every storey of dwellings in Ontario.

Fire departments are asked to report on the presence and operation of smoke alarms and
‘suppression devices in every structure fire they attend. The data collection was revised in
2009 to accommodate new smoke alarm regulations and to make the reporting more
‘accurate. The results In 2009 were consistent with prior years, prior data collection.

‘The report covers residential fires with loss - $ loss, injury or fatality - excluding residential
non structures (tent, motor home) and detached garages.

‘Smoke Alarm Operation
Alarms operated in 44% home fires from 2007 to 2011.
The alarm presence was undetermined in 17% of home fires.

‘There was no smoke alarm warning in 32% of these residential fires. They did not operate in
15% of these fires, and there was no smoke alarm in 17% of these households.

In the incidents where there was a smoke alarm, but It did not operate (15%) :

‘5% of these did not operate because they had no battery or no power.

6% of these did not operate because they were remote or separated from the fire.

Less than 1% each: unit failure was suspected, improper installation, tampering (vandalism).
1% various other reasons for non operation,

2% the reason for non operation was reported as undetermined.

Executive Cc

Ba

No. 1770
June 25, 2004

Ounider

a Published by The Heritage Foundation

The Costs of Sprawl Reconsidered:
What the Data Actually Show

Wendell Cox and Joshua Utt

The Costs of Sprawl? The “anti-sprawi” move-
rment has received much attention in recent years,
and has been successful in implementing its “smart
growth’ policies in some areas. Much of the justi
Cation for the current eampaign against the low.
density (sprawling) urban development that Amer-
jeans and Wester Europeans preler is based upon,
assumptions that itis more costly than the more
dense development of central cities. A federally
financed research project (Costs of Sprawl) con-
cluded that we can no longer afford sprawling
development and that failure to force more dense
development in the next quarter-century would
impose more than $225 billion in additional costs,

Current Urban Planning Assumptions. The
urban planning profession generally contends that
the following assumptions (called in this paper
Current Urban Planning Assumptions) are com-
pelling reasons why greater control should be
exercised over land use to fight urban sprawl.
1. Lower spending will be associated with higher

population densities.
2. Lower spending will be associated with lower

rates of population growth,
3. Lower spending will be associated with older
‘municipalities

Research to Date. Most of the research on
which these assumptions are based is theoretical,
projecting sundard costs into the future. It makes
ho attempt to test the actual expenditures of more

dense, slower growing, and older municipalities
compared to municipalities with the suburban
land-use patterns that have developed over the
past half-century: The research contained in this
paper examines the actual data/on municipal
expenditures and finds that the Current Urban
Planning Assumptions are unreliable and that
other factors—princpally, variations in employee
compensation per eapita—explain virtually all of
the variation in municipal expenditures.

However, before describing this research, itis
important to examine the Costs of Sprawl ciaims
Although $225 billion in additional costs sounds
like «Tot (and there are many questions regarding,
this claim), the cost is actually modest because iis
spread over a quarter-century and an average of
115 million households. In fact, in the last 20
years, the average annual increase in local govern
tment expenditures in the United States has been
25 times the annual Costs of Sprawl projection

Econometric Analysis, The source of data for
this paper is the United States Bureau of the Cen-
sus database for 2000. We used this database to
conduct an econometric analysis that sought to

toa
{setherpeneete meonmrnn

reir
stone age aan ssn
este pao ay be Cope


No. 1770

—Baclgrsttter

June 25, 2004

identify the factors that are most important in
explaining the differences in municipal expendi-
tik Data were avila or mote than 700
‘municipalities in the year 2000. We developed
three econometric models.

The first, the General Government Model, was
used to estimate the impact of factors such as pop-
slain deny, rime rates, and 1) others on
‘municipal expenditures per capita. With respect to
the Current: Urban Planning Assumptions, no
practical relationship was found between munici-
pal expenditures per capita density, population
growth rate, or community age. The impact of
density of municipal expenditures was found to be
statistically significant, but the predicted impact
‘was trivial. Theoretically, if the nation were to
reverse 40 years of suburbanization, the annual
savings per capita would purchase a dinner for
two ata moderately priced restaurant

Further, the combination of factors that seemed
likely to affect municipal spending (both those
related to the Current Urban Planning Assump-
tions and others) explained less than 30 percent of
the variation in municipal expenditures per capita.
‘The other two econometric models showed that
none of the Current Urban Planning Assumptions
bore @ statistically significant relationship to the
variation in municipal wastewater charges or water
charges. This is particularly significant, since these
Infrastructure functions are among, those cited
‘most often in claims that suburbanization imposes
additional costs

Nominal Analy

‘A nominal (ranking) analy-

sis of the actual data was also performed. The
actual data indicate relationships considerably at
variance with the Current Urban Planning
‘Assumptions. The highest density, slowest grow

ing, and oldest municipalities all ad higher-han-
average expenditures per capita. The oldest
‘municipalities had the highest expenditures.

Employee Compensation. By far the largest
expenditure category for municipalities is
employee compensation. A further nominal analy-
sis indicated that virwlly all of the variation in
municipal expenditures per capita could be
explained by the variation in employee compenst-
tion. For example, the highest density quintile of
‘municipalities spent $68 per capita each year more
than the average. Wages and salaries in the same
‘municipalities were $91 higher.

Special Interest Control and Entrenchment?
tn shor, hs analysis indicates that higher payroll
costs are associated with larger, older municipali-
ties. Local government employees have a signfi-
cant, concentrated interest in improving their
compensation and working conditions. This could
be indicative of a political “entrenchment” that
results from special interest control—an influence
to which older municipalities would be more sus-
ceptible. Other special interests could exert similar
influence, although employee compensation alone
appears sufficient to account for the variation in
municipal spending. It seems much more likely
thatthe differences in municipal expenditures per
‘capita are the result of political, rather than eco-
nomic, factors—especially the influence of special
interess

—Wendel Cox, Principal ofthe Wendell Cox Con-
sultancy in metropolitan St.Louis, is a Visiting Fellow
‘at The Heritage Foundation and a Visiting Professor at
the Conservatoire National des Arts et Metirs in
Paris Joshua Uttis a PhD. candidate in Economics at
Washington State University and an Adjunct Fellow at
the Discovery Insitute in Seattle, Washington.


Ba

No. 1770
June 25, 2004

ounder

y Published by The Heritage Foundation

The Costs of Sprawl Reconsidered:
What the Data Actually Show

Wendell Cox and Joshua Utt

Over the past several yeas there has emerged in
the United States an influential political movement
hose purpose is to severely limit, or even prohibit,
further suburbanization. This “antisprawi” move:
ment has received much attention and has been suc
cessful in implementing. its restrictive land-use
policies in some areas. Much of the justification for
the current campaign against the low-density
(sprawling) urban development that Americans and
Western Europeans! prefer is based upon assump-
tions that it is more cesly than the more dense
development of central cies

Variously described as “smart growth,” “growth
management,” or “New Urbanism," the movement
would force'people to live at higher densities, in
multi-family unis, townhouses, oF clustered single-
family developments—wile "placing significant
restrictions on the expansion of suburban commer-
ial development

The rationales offered for limiting suburban hous-
ing choices are many, various, and of questionable
validity. At one point or another over the past half-
decade, critics of suburban development have cited
its adverse impact on “food security” wildlife, and air
and water quality. Critics of suburban expansion
‘even contend that suburbs contribute to serial kill
ings, teenage angst, social alienation, low wages,
obesity, asthma, and higher taxes, This last item, the
belie that lower-density, “more sprawling” develop-
ment fuels higher government expenditures, is the
most common reason elected officials in’ many

Talking Points

+ The antispam movement calms lower
density (more sprawling), faster growing, and
newer communies have higher gover
ment costs than higher deny ess spraw
Ing slower growing, der communities.

+ An econometic analysis of actual munich
pally data inccates that there Is no pat:
‘cally significant difference in expenditures:
per capita Detween the more sprawng and
fess sprawling communities.

+ Iva nominal ranking analysis the highest
densty, slowest growing, and oldest muni
ipaltis a had higher than average exper-
aiures per capta The oldest munipatles
had the highest expenditures.

+ Other factors—principaly, variations in
employee compensation pet captaexpain
virtaly all of the varation tn munipal
expenditures.

+ ftseems key that the aferences in manic:
tbal expenditures per capita are the resut
‘Of politcal, rater than economic fecors—
Specialy the inuence of special interest.

a pe, te, an ba
wn cared
‘onan acy Se
wna talanuates Amos A

‘3c saan 3095

Bon Sfess00 “hrs


No. 170 Backerot inder. June 25, 2004

‘municipalities adopt measures to limit housing

growth in their communities.

Typical ofthe concem that low-density develop-
ment raises municipal costs—and therefore local
taxes—isa contention ina recent, federally funded
study of sprawl and costs that claims the United
States “no longer can pay for the infastructure
necessary to develop farther and farther out in
metropolitan areas.”

Current Urban Planning Assumptions. The
US. urban planning community has adopted sev-
eral assumptions about suburbanization and local
government expenditures. These are outlined
below and are referred to as the Current Urban
Planning Assumptions in this paper.

1. Lower spending per capita will be associ-
‘ated with higher population densities. Thus,
it i presumed that the more densely devel-
‘oped a community is, the less costly it will be
to provide government services on a per cap-
ita basis. Conversely, the more widely dis
persed development is (as in a community in
Which houses ae spread out on large lots), the
higher will be local government expenditures
per cay

2. Lower spending per capita will be associ-
ated with lower rates of population growth.
This is based upon the belief that the burden
of building new infrastructure in newer, grow
‘ng communities is greater than it would be to
‘expand or use latent capacity in oer, slower-
‘growing communities

3. Lower spending per capita will be associ-
ated with older municipalities, 1's assumed,
forexample, that the exsting infrastructure of
colder municipalities has latent capacity, can
bbe expanded, or can be used more intensively
for less than the costs of building infrastruc-
ture in newer, more sprawling municipalities
(which are virually always suburban), At
Teast partially asa result ofthis belief, current

urban planning theory places @ priority on
construction within highly developed areas
(eferred to as “infil” development) instead of
in undeveloped areas (referred to as “green-
field" development),

Belief in these assumptions provides support to
turban planners and others who are interested in
limiting suburban development and, in extreme
cases, outlawing development outside “urban
¢growih boundanes" or designated “growth areas”

In fact, however, vitally all ofthe research on
which the Current Urban Planning Assumptions
are based is theoretical, projecting relative costs
into the future without examining the actual
expenditures that are being made today by munic-
ipalities of diflering urban forms and ages. The
analysis in this paper reviews actual municipal
expenditure data in relation to the Current Urban
Planning Assumptions. Among the findings:

+ Based upon an econometric analysis of data
from the year 2000 for more than 700 munici-
palities, we conclude that none of the Current
Urban ‘Planning Assumptions is associated
with any practically significant variation in
local government expenditures per capita, In
addition, the econometric analysis is able to
sccount for less than 30 percent of the varia~
tion in local government expenditures per cap-
ita, This indicates that other factors, not
accounted for in the econometric formula, are
‘more important

+ Based upon a nominal (ranking) analysis ofthe
same dataset, we conclude that the Current
Urban Planning Assumptions are almost 180
degrees opposite the reality of municipal
expenditures. The highest density municipali-
ties have higher than average expenditures per
capita; the slowest growing municipalities have
higher than average expenditures per capita;
and the oldest municipalities have the highest
expenditures ofall per capita

1 Urban sprawls cen thought of as an American phenomenon. In ft, sprawl hasbeen occuring throughout the high
Income werld and muck ofthe low and middlesncomse world. Viral popalton grow n major Wester Euro-
pean urban area has been ouside the urban cores frat least three decades, ocarrng mostly in subrban syle settings.

2. Rober: W. Burchell ea, Cots of Spran!—Revised (Washington, D.C: National Academy Press, 1998), p. 3


No. 170 Backprot inder. June 25, 2004

By far the largest expenditure for rss
‘municipal government is employee com-
pensation. There were no reliable data for
including this variable in the econometric
analysis. Yet our nominal analysis indi-
cates that virtually all of the variation
between municipal expenditures per cap-
ita can be accounted for by differences in
‘employee compensation per capita

Costs of Urban Sprawl:Research
Perhaps the most oftquoted recent |
research attempting to estimate the re

tionship between sprawl and infrastru
ture costs was conducted by a team led by
Professor Robert Burchell and funded
under the auspices of the federal government’
‘Transit Cooperative Research Program (TCRP). The
project included two reports: Costs of Spraw!—2000
and The Costs of Spravl—Revisted The Costs of
Spraw!—2000 projected that from 2000 to 2025,
‘America would incur $227.4 billion in gross addi-
tional costs for what the study terms “uncontrolled
‘growth’ (less dense, more sprawling growth) ver-
sus “controlled growth” (more dense, less sprawl-
ing growth). This equates to approximately $9.1
billion in gross additional costs per year.

The figure of $227.4 billion may seem large.*
Yer in the context of 25 years and an average pop-
ulation of 115 milion households, it is actually
rather modest. The $227.4 billion would amount
to only $80 per household annually, or $29 per
‘capita (See Table 1.) Ths includes:

+ $441 per household (or $1.63 per capita) for
additional sewer and water costs,

+ $38.37 per household (or $14.16 per capita)
for additional roadways; and

+ $36.77 per household (or $13.57 per capita)
for expanded public services

Many growth critics have used these estimates
fsa measure of the cost that sprawl imposes on
society. Advocates of smart growth polices have

Projected Gross Additional Cost of

wnaitndbename toons — |
tec teed tone |
= cor |
Sevens sis sur so |
omer |

Implied that these estimates represent the costs of

continued low-density development on society.

However, many of the purported costs are not

imposed on society at al: They are private costs

freely paid by the people who buy new houses,

The cost of sewer and water infrastructure in
new developments is passed on to the buyer, and
subsequent operation is typically funded with Fes
assessed on residents and businesses based upon
use. Typically, new housing development infra-
structure (local streets, curbs, sidewalks, storm
and waste sewers, and water supply lines within
the development) is paid for privately by the pur-
chasers of new houses, having been built by devel-
pers or homebuilders. These are fully private
costs that are paid for by persons who voluntanly
move into new houses and apartments, having
determined that they can afford such a move.

There ate further indications that the projec-
tions from the Coss of Sprawi—2000 are not “unaf-
fordable," and actually are modest in comparison
to other costs in the economy. Specifically:

‘+ From 1980 to 2000 (inclusive), the increase
‘alone in total personal income in the United
States was nearly $27 trilion (in 2000 dollars)
for $1.3 urillion per year? This is more than

3. Robert W Burchell Cas of Spran!—2000, Transporation Research Board, 2002.

This would eal into question the $2274 billion eimate

iappeats tha the cost of more dispersed municipal development i lower, not higher.

Pm ent


No. 1770.

140 times the $9.1 billion in average annual
additional costs projected in Costs of Sprawl—
2000 for 2000 through 2025 °

* From 1980 to 2000 (inclusive), the total
increase in local government expenditures in
the United States was $4.5 trillion (in 2000
dollars adjusted for the increase in popula-
tion), or $225 billion per year. This is approxi
mately 25 times the $9.1 billion average
additional public and private cost projected in
Costs of Spraw—2000,

Mu Expenditures: Econometric
Analyst

Because the authors of the Costs of Sprawi—
2000 mixx public and private expenditures that
they claim are related to sprawl, the study’ find
ings offer litle guidance on one ofthe key public
policy issues related to suburbanization: What are
the actual, addtional municipal costs that subur
banization imposes on the community at large if
any? This report will attempt to fil that void by
conducting an econometric analysis (See box) of
‘municipal spending patierns to determine what
portion of municipal costs appear to be related to
the impact of sprawl

If the Current Urban Planning Assumptions are
valid, the tends that Costs of Spravl—2000 ident-
fies—having been underway for at least five
decades—should reveal clearly the differences in
expenditures between less sprawling and more
sprawling areas. This means that older, higher
density municipalities should have lower costs per
capita than newer, lower density, more sprawling
areas, These differences should be evident in the
present spending pattems of local governments

Foran issue that has galvanized public debate in
many communities throughout the country, there

‘Adjusted for population incre

June

2004

's litle comprehensive, academic research on the
actual relationship between land-use patterns and
local government costs, The mast recent research
was published some time ago and is based upon
carly 1980s data. It was conducted by Professor
Helen Ladd at Duke University, who performed an
econometric analysis of growth measures and the
Stl pe expends of 27 cous She
found that per capita expenditures on public ser-
vices tend to rise as density rises and that higher
Population growth is associated with lower per
Capita local government expenditures—precsely
the opposite of Current Urban Planning Assump-
tion #1, above®

Because the data used in her study are now
rote than two decades old, there is a need for
more contemporary research on the factors that
drive local government expenditures, especially in
view of the predominant influence of “smart
growth” urban planning theories. The purpose of
this paper isto fill that gap with municipal cost
data drawn from the 2000 Census,

Source of Data. Although the term “sprawl” has
no precise definition, its most fundamental charac-
teristic is lower population density, Smart growth
advocates presume that building less sprawling,
higher density communities results in lower gov-
cemment expenditures. If this is indeed the case, an
analysis of municipal spending patterns across the
country should show that as population densities
£80 up, costs go down—and vice versa

In order to reliably capture the impact of density
on local government spending, we analyzed data for
‘municipalities (cities and towns) rather than coun-
ties? because that is the level of government most
affected by finance issues regarding utlities (waste-
water and water) and general public services. The
source of municipal financial data forthe analysis in

Estimated from US. Department of Commerce data. Assumes a constant rte of nn increas rom 1980 to 2000.
Estimated from US. Census Bureau data, Assumes a constant rate of anal increase from 1960 to 2000.

Helen Lad, "Popalaion Growth, Deny and the Costs of Providing Public Services," Un Sues Vl 29, No, 2(1992),

pp. 273-295

8. This sno the case fr other local untsof general goverment, such as counties and wowmships. These generally include
‘much rural (non-urban) land. As result, density data for ote local government units not wefecve of urban densities,


No. 1770 Backerot inder June 25, 2004

this paper is the US. Census Bureau government
finance database for fiscal year 2000, which con-
tains information for approximately 1,800 runic
pallies. Additional data for municipalities are
availble from other sources, such as the 2000 US.
Census (demographic and density data) and the
US. Department of Justice (crime rates). Another
advantage of using municipal (rather than county)
data is that municipal boundaries typically contain
litle rural space; therefore, the population density
within those boundaries is generally similar to
urban population density.

Because the current urban planning debate is
principally focused on where development occurs
within the nation’ largest metropolitan areas, the
‘municipalities analyzed in this study included
only those within metropolitan areas of more than
1,000,000 residents in 2000.'° Consolidated city-
‘counties were not included, because such mu
palities provide both city and county services and
would be expected to have inherently higher
expenditures as a consequence."

The analysis in this paper does not include pri-
mary and secondary education costs. Most of the
nation’ primary and secondary education is pro-
vided by independent school districts that seldom
match municipal (or county) boundaries. As a
result there is itl, if any, broad demographic data
specific to the geographical areas served by such
districts. Related research indicates that, contrary
to Curent Urban Planning Assumption #2, ele-
mentary and secondary education expenditures
tend to be lower in school districts with the great-
est enrollment growth, and highest where there is
the least growth.” Our research focuses on munic-
Spal costs in three categories:

+ Government expenditures (all coss except for
utilities and education),

+ Municipally owned wastewater utility changes;
and

‘+ Municipally owned water tility charges.

Econometric Models. For purposes of this
study three economeanic models were developed
to estimate the relationships between various factors
and municipal expenditures:

+ The General Government Model was developed
toestimate the relationship between municipal
current expenditures per capita and growth-
influencing factors,

+ Wastewater Charges Model; and

+ Water Utty Charges Mode

The Wastewater Charges and Water Utility

Charges models were developed to capture the

impact of density growth, and age of community on

the cost of these functions. These are frequently
cited in the urban planning literaure as. being
upwardly affected by more sprawling development.

‘Another reason for analyzing utility changes sepa
rate from general government functions i that water
and wastewater services are generally financed by
user fes, rather than by the general tax revenues
that finance most other municipal government oper-
ations. Infact, these utilities are not inherently gov-
emment services: In many communities, regulated
private companies provide such functions

General Government Model

The General Government Model estimates the

impact of a number of factors on per capita munici-
pal government expenditures, excluding utilities and

10. Metropolitan areas of more than 1,090,000 residents comprised approximately 38 percent ofthe nation’ population in
2000 {2000 metropolitan definitions). The 49 such areas had a combined popula of 163 mllon, otto national tal

of 281 milion (Table H.10)

11 Asa esl, jursicions suchas New York, Philadelphia, San Francisco, Bakimor, St.Louis, Miami, New Orleans, India-
‘apels, and Lexington, Kentucky were excluded

12. Byrom Schlomach and Wendell Cx, A Lok at Scho! Faites Funding Texas, Texas Public Policy Foundation, 2004 st
Inept exaspicycom/p 2004-04 facies pf June 15, 2004)

13. This research uses muls-linearregresion analysis. Independen variables (such as population density) were chosen. These
were theorized to have some impact on municipal expenditures per capita ihe dependent variable).

14. Water and wastewater utilities in France alo tend to be pivacly owned.


No. 1770,

June 25, 2004

Our econometric analysis relies on the use of
the “multiple linear regression model,” a com-
monly used statistical analysis tool that mea-
sures. the elect of a number of factors
(independent variables) on a single factor (depen-
dent variable. This paper attempts to estimate
the association between independent variables
thought to have an influence on. municipal
‘expenditures (uch as population density and
crime rate as shown in Table 2) and the depen-
dent variable of municipal government expendi-
‘ures per capita

‘The multiple linear regression models pro-
vide two types of results important tothe analy-
sis, First, the model estimates the coefficient on
each independent variable, This coeficent mea-
sures the estimated impact of changes of the
independent variable (Such as average house
value) on the dependent variable (such as aver
age expenditures), Second, each coefficient is
paired with a mathematically estimated level of
confidence in the two variables’ relationship.
Economists generally require a confidence level
of 95 percent, calling such a relationship “statis
tically significant.” A statistically significant vari
able is a reliable predictor of the dependent

Econometric Models: Statistical Significance
and “Practical Significance”

1. Inrecent years sever academic economists have trmed their attention tthe potential policy implications of an
analytical proces that maybe patting too much weight ito whether a relationship bewen economic vanales is
sarstcalysigiiant—at che expense of oier arly telasonships beween varabes. Spell, ty are
camining whether the relationship revealed by statistical methods makes economic sese ad wher the relaion-
Ships oft meaningfl raged: One ofthe ear stdies on this subject was published by profeors Deidre
“MeClosaey and Stephen Zak a the March 1996 sue ofthe Journal of Enon Litersture twas tiled "The San-
dard Erot of Regestons” A recent review of ths aeademc debate was reviewed in the January 32, 2004, iss of
‘The Economist nan atc tiled Signing Nothing” on page 76

variable, aking the other independent variables
in the model as fixed.

Yet statistical significance (a reliable predictive
relationship) does not mean thatthe relationship
{s of practical significance (economically or math-
ematically significant) An econometric model
ray find a statistically significant relationship
between a variable and a result but that rlation-
ship may not be material. Statistical significance
is a measure of the reliability of an association
between one factor and another. However, the
mathematical or practical effect may be either
small o large

Practical significance is calculated as the per-
‘cent change in the dependent variable (in the
‘case of the present research, municipal expendi-
tures) divided by the percent change in the
independent variable (for example, population
density or median house age). Practical signifi-
‘cance is virtually the same thing as “elasticity”
For practical significance to exist, however,
requites statistical significance. By definition, &
relationship that is not statistically significant
cannot be practically significant.

«continued ot Econometric Models. on next page

education. The model uses 13 factors that would be
expected to influence local government expendi-
tures (current and capital expenditures)” per capita
These include factors that test the Current Urban
Planning Assumptions (population density, popula-
tion growth, and community age as indicated by

median house ages). There were sufficent data for
738 municipalities to, be included in the General
Government Model.!® Table 2 lists the variables
included inthe General Government Model

General Government Model Results. The
results indicate that the 13 factors in the General


No. 1770

—_______ Backprounder—___

June 25, 2004

Econometric Models — contrued rom previous page

Tf for example, it were determined that there
was’ a statistically significant association
between higher house value and higher munici-
pal spending, then the question of practical sig-
nificance becomes imporant. If a 50 percent
increase in average house value is associated
with a 1 percent increase in municipal spending
per capita, the elasticity would be 0.02, or two.
Percent, which would not be considered of
practical significance. I, on the other hand, a 50
percent increase in average house value s asso-
ciated with @ 25 percent increase in municipal
spending per capita, the elasticity would be
0150 (50 percent), which would be a number
large enough tobe practically significant.

These distinctions can be missed when statis
tical significance is overzealously characterized

‘Tansporatlon Policy Projet, September 2003

2, Bubara A. McCann and Reid Eving, Measuring the Health Efecto prow, Sar Growth Ameria andthe Surface

fn such a way as to imply practical significance
One example is highly publicized recent
research that found a statistically. significant
relationship between urban sprawl and obe-
sity—but the actual weight dlilerences pre-
dicted by the model were far from being
practically significant. The diference in average
‘weight between high-density central counties
and low-density (more sprawling) suburban
counties was predicted by the model to be lsg
than one pound in many metropolitan areas ?

Regretiably, in this case, advocates of govern-
‘ment policies aimed at combating sprawl wit-
tingly or unwittingly appear to have misled
reporters and elected officals, who were led to
believe that statistical significance, in and of
itself, meant practical significance. It does not.

Government Model explain approximately 29 per
cent ofthe variation in municipal expencltures, as
revealed in Table 3.17 This means that 71 percent
of the variation in total expenditures is not
explained by the factors included in the model, but
tthe by other influences which cannot be quant
fied or for which there are no available or accurate
data, The conclusion is that, contrary tothe theory.
comparatively litle of the variation in municipal
costs is associated with the Current Urban Planning
Assumptions. Other factors, which have not been
‘identified, are more important.

As Table 3 reveals, 8 ofthe 13 factors were reli-
able predictors of either higher or lower municipal
spending per capita (ata statistically significant 95

percent level of confidence). These factors are:
rate, localstate expenditure ratio, state
and federal aid, density, persons per household,
‘owner-occupied housing (percent of housing units
occupied by owners rather than renters), median
hhouse value, and crime rate
‘As the discussion inthe box indicates, statistical
significance does not necessarily denote practical
significance. A factor may bea reliable predictor of
an impact, but the impact itself may be smal.
‘Among the 13 growth-related factors analyzed in
the General Government Model, practical signii-
cance varied widely. The local-to-state expenditure
ratio!® had the highest practical significance (a
100 percent increase in the ratio of local gover

15. Current expenditures are the day-o-dy costs of operations, such as employee compensation, mateals and supplies, and
profesional service contacts Capital expendi(ues ate lor construction and scquation of asst, such vehicle, data

processing equipment, fice, ete

16. The municipalities inthe sample conanined 63 millon people in 2000 (39 percent ofthe otal popustion in meropoian

areas ove 1,000,000),

17, R029,


No. 1770 Backgrounder. June 25, 2004

‘ment spending to total state and local
‘government spending would be asso-
ciated with a 55 percent increase in

Regression Variables

per capita expenditures—a_ practical
significance of 55 percent). The other we Betrsen
‘ariables with comparaively ‘igh | ONO Hvenshancietpariyioented
practical significance were persons | Yan pirereniisiateeceiony
per household (-42 percent), owner: | ova IResccrepano sport
cecupied housing (30 percent, | roma peviaeen
‘crime rate (+25 percent) and median vase esi a merce rg
‘house value (+25 percent). The other (poet [Reto loctto sate nd toc rect german pers
reliably predictive (statistically signif- | SYAO%, Leese.
cant) factors had practical significance | org ‘Ren pum een 0 8
less than 15 percent. | Reto emanerern
Population Density. The resus | QVNOCCX —_urtfhnare a orn |
derived from the General Government | $a lone
Model are consistent withthe Curent | Seq matooweny
‘Urban Planning Assumption #1 that | cnet Gee pt CED 2 rot ar 00)
associates higher densities with lower
municipal government expenditures — | aus matninmt

but only weakly so. The relationship

was statistically significant (99 per-
cent), but there was litle practical significance,
which would indicate that higher population den-
sity is associated with only a small downward varia-
tion in municipal costs per capita. The mathematical
significance or elasticity was 0.146: Each 10 percent
Increase in density could be expected to produce a
146 percent decrease in municipal expenditures
per capita. For the average municipality, each 1,000
increase in population per square mile® i assoc\-
sted with $43 per capita eduction in municipal
expenditures. This is a minuscule expenditure
decrease compared with the substantial increase in
density required to trigger it In other words, a vir-
tually unprecedented increase n population density
in an already urbanized area would trigger an
decrease in expenditure equal tothe price of dinner
for two at a moderately priced restaurant

18 This actor (oa rec gener expenditures as a pening of

Population Growth. Population growth, the
factor associated with Curent Urban Planning
‘Assumption #2 was not statistically significant and
ould not therefore be practically significant.
‘Thus, the results from the model do not support
(Current Urban Planning Assumption #2, indicat-
ing no significant relationship between higher
population growth and higher municipal expe
{ues per capita

Median House Age. Median house age, the fac-
tor associated with Current Urban Planning
‘Assumption #3 was not statistically significant and
ould not therefore be practically” significant.
‘Thus, the results from the model do not support
(Coneent Urban Planning Assumption #3, indicat-
ing no significant relationship between newer

ne goverment pls lca government direc general expe

ies) was inched to capa the diflrences (by ate in expenditure dstnbuion Between state and loa governments

19. Negative or positive.

20. Average population densty ofthe sample wa 3,776 per square mile

‘ncreace densities by more than 25 percent.

1,000 increase In populition density would

21, There have been virtually no densiy increases of such a magnitude in municipalities that do not have broad expanses of

undeveloped space


—_______ Backprounder—____

No.7 June 25, 2004
communities and higher EE =
trunicipl expendinues per cena
copia Government Mode: Expenditures per Capita
ehevestny he elie Dependent Variable: Spending
sion of the thee factors that mee
measure the impact of the sini (Sa
Cament Uiturt Planning | Wii" Coline Phan Sear Pothiny Seance Gerd
‘Assumpions ad ite 0 the | py, man aoe
explanatory value of the | former onmino a oe ‘oo
General Goverment Model | race “amen Sam o oo
fo 'here specified, Only | otoce ‘ee oom we
one--population densi” | Seary cameo = mm am
was found to be satisticaly | Foe oz tot ‘a
significant and oflitleprac- | trots ah tomar
Ul signficanc) Excluding | Owecee 90 tat ce am
these thre variables (popu | Moses osoele ams to mom
lation. densi, population | aya oo soe
fe a keen | ea = a o .
tng age) and re-running the
model with the remaining
ten factors yields an Re | Riteed amma

squared of 0.24, meaning

that the model as so speci-
fied explains only 24 percent
of the measured expenditure variability from one
‘municipality to another. Adding the three growth-
related variables to these ten factors brings the R-
squared up to only 0.29, meaning that the inclusion
of the growth variables improves the explanatory
value of the model by only five percentage points.
This is not much of an impact for issues that are
alleged to be having imporant effects on govern-
‘ment costs in growing communities

‘Wastewater Charges and Water Charges Models

Neither the Wastewater Charges Model nor the
Water Utility Model indicated strong relationships
between the identified factors and user charges, 25
Tables 8 and 9 demonstrate (see Appendix). The
‘Wastewater Changes Model explained 12 percent
of the variation in wastewater user charges per
capita, while the Water Charges Model explained 8
petgen ofthe variation in water charges per cap
ita”? Thus, the Wastewater Charges Model failed
{0 explain 88 percent ofthe variation in wastewe.

ter charges, and the Water Utility Model failed to
explain 92 percent of the variation in water
charges. This suggests that influences other than
those variables included in the model explain
much of the differences in utlity costs from one
‘community t another.

With respect to the Current Urban Planning
Assumptions, only density was found to be statis-
tically significant, but of little practical signiti-
‘cance. In the Wastewater Charges Model, density
exhibited a practical significance of minus 18.0
percent, consistent with Current Urban Planning
Assumption #1, Similarly, density’ practical sig-
nificance of minus 12.5. percent in the Water
Usilty Model was consistent with Current Urban
Planning Assumption #2 (Tables 2, 8, and 9).
However, this translates into only siali impacts
cn. consumer costs, A 1,000 person-per-square-
nile diflerence in average population density is
associated with a $6 difference in annual waste-
water charges per capita, or filty cents per month.

22. There were 764 wastewater observations (Wastewater Charges Model) and 713 water (Water Charges Mode) observations.


No. 170 Backerot under. June 25, 2004

In other words, a 1,000 person-per-square-
mile difference is associated with an annual |
water charge difference of $4 per capita, or |
thiny-three cents per month—less than a |
penny per day. Obviously, such trivial sav-
ings in waste water and water-related costs
‘cannot justify public polices that would
force major changes in existing lifestyles or
land-use patterns.

Its particularly significant that none ofthe
Current Urban Planning Assumptions were
associated with a statistically significant rela-
tionship with the variation in Wastewater |
‘Charges or Water Charges. These infrastrac- |
ture functions are among those cited most
often in claims that suburbanization imposes
additional costs

‘Alternative Measures of Relationship: A
‘Nominal Ranking Analysis

‘Another way to analyze the same data is to
rank it by categories that reflect. varying
degrees of difference in some ofthe key inde-
pendent variables (such as density) and relate
these categories tothe diflerent cost measures
that comprise the key dependent variables.
The existence or absence of any obvious
trends indicates how strong or weak the rela
tionships are. Using the same Census data, 2
‘nominal (ranking) analysis by quintiles (20
percent rankings) was performed on the sam-
pile to determine whether the statistical rela-
tionships that the Current Urban Planning
‘Assumptions would predict are actually evi
dentin the data (Table 4).

‘As the nominal rankings reveal, none of
the growth-related variables show the rela-
tionship with municipal expenditures that is
predicted by the Current Urban Planning
Assumptions. This confirms the findings of
the econometric analysis, which was only
able to explain a relatively small fraction of the
cost differences among communities, and where
only one of the growth-related variables (popula-
tion density) was found to be statistically signifi-
cant, but not practically significant, at
conventional confidence interval.

‘Summary of Nominal Analysis Results:
‘General Government Expenditures per Capita, 2000 |

Socy Aa |
opason Poulan per “Aca Rac
Demy “ure pedir apenas
Mages) 008 su ‘
Heewr@) 41 7 :
Mase) 180) sia 2
ower) ‘ae sine 2
owes 8) 00 i365 s
nee
ee) ame sun
Baswerce wom

fans

verse ‘hatal_——RancAcuat

Grom gander apenas |

“ok Pr +

ose 1190 5

ae sino >

a sin 1

rani

ange “Raa RakcAca

hee eens Capone
os sue 4
na sim 2

ns wane

Population Density. The Curent Urban Plan-
ning Assumptions would predict thatthe lowest
expenditures per capita would bein the highest
population density quintile. In fact, expendi
‘ures per capita in the highest density quintile
were the second highest, and were above average


No. 170

——_____ Backprounder—___

June 25, 2004

Only the lowest density quintile (#5) had higher
‘municipal expenditures per capita. It should be
noted that the population density of quintile #5
is very low, and below the general US, Census
Bureau urbanized area threshold of 1,000 per-
sons per quae mie, Expendtes per ein
‘were lower than average in the middle three
‘quintiles, which are more reflective ofthe subur-
‘ban population densities that have developed in
the United States since 1950. The lowest expen-
dlitures per capita were in quintile #2—the sec-
‘ond-highest density quintile. This quintiles
average density is comparatively low—approxi-
mately 10 percent above the average density for
the entire database and more than 40 percent
lower than the average density of US. urbanized
areas with populations over 500,000 in 1950.2?
‘The implication is that higher density does not
lower local government expenditures per cxpita

‘+ Population Growth Rate, The actual expenci-
ture data indicate that quintile #1 (which has the
lowest population growth rate) has the second
highest expenditures per capita—at a level
above the average. Like the population density
conclusion, the actual spending data are incon-
sistent with what would be expected based upon
the Current Urban Planning Assumptions.

‘+ Municipality Age. Municipality age provides
the most stark inconsistency with the Current
Urban. Planning Assumptions. The oldest
‘municipalities (quintile #1) have the highest
cexpendinutes per capita, precisely the opposite
of what would be expected. The lowest expen
dlitures per capita are in the newest commumni-
ties (quintile #5), which is also the opposite of
what the Current Urban Planning Assump-
tions would predict.

The most dense municipalities (quintile #1) also
failed to have the expected lowest wastewater
‘charges per capita or the lowest water charges per
capita, Quintle #1 municipalities did, however,
have lower than average wastewater charges,
though only of $7 per capita per year—hardlyris-
ing to the level of unaffordable." There was litle

23, Calalted fram US, Census Buesu data

|
|'Nominal Analysis Results: Local Government

| Employee Compensation
raed
ergs Wages
| Ponon Demty Duty Snes
| Habe) sam “7
Her) tio Ss
rede 0) 26 be
tower) ‘0 be
tower 6) 0 sa
| aecage Pen) am Su
| ura
Ange ger
1990-2000 Grom “Com Stren
Feb) om M0
aber cy 0
rele 3) ie
tower Pad Fi
wes 6) om bss
fo Ose) om be
ures
Vinge
emiptyAge Avner Age Sire
Lowes) “ewe
Lower) a ‘206
ee) a bn
Heer (8 me hn
Ween 3) i a7
ere Pear) 2 65

Gifference between the quintiles in water charges
per capita. (See Tables 10 and 11 in Appendix.)
Thus, the pattem in the nominal data (actual
ranked data) for utilities was different than pre-
dicted by the econometric analysis.

Thus, the actual expenditure data reveal that
more dense, slower growing, and older municipal
ities do not have lower expenditures per capits—
the opposite of what would be expected if the Cur-
rent Urban Planning Assumptions were correct.*


No. 170 Backgrounder. June 25, 2004

Other Potential Municipal Expenditure
icipal Expenc

‘The fact thatthe econometric analysis explains
so litle ofthe variation in municipal costs per cap-
ita, combined with the fact that the highest den-
sity, slowest growing, and oldest communities do
not have the lower expenditures per capita pre-
dicted by the Current Urban Planning Assump-
tions, would seem to indicate that other factors are
more important drivers of variation in municipal
costs between communities.

‘The most obvious place to look is local govern-
ment employee compensation, Employee compen-
sation is by far the langest expenditure function for
most local governments, consuming, on average, 64
percent of total current expenditures Employee
‘compensation, is approximately 3.5 times capital
expenditures. ™

Employee compensation varies significantly
between jurisdictions. Census Bureau information
indicates that local government average wages and
salaries for simllar postions an skills vay by as
much as 93 percent between some states.” These
cost disparities are not necessarily explained by
regional differences. For example, in the Denver
‘metropolitan area the municipality with the high-
cst wages ancl salaries per capita pays nearly 1.5
times the area average. and more than five times
the municipality with the lowest wages and sala-
ries per capita. Further, there are also significant

diferences (up to 123 percent) between the per-
centage add-on of employer-paid employee bene-
fits costs among local governments by state

There are other factors that could be responsible
for such large variations. There could be signifi-
cant variations between the numbers of hours
actually worked by government employees. This is
evident at the state level, where differences of up
to 38 days annually have been shown Thus,
seems likely that differences in municipal govern-
ment employee compensation per capita could be
an important factor in explaining differences in
municipal expenditures ® Finally, there could be
significant variations in the number of employees,
oF in employee productivity

Although the available data cannot be used t0
econometrcally test the impact of public employee
compensation on municipal costs, the nominal
ranking analysis used in the previous section can be
extended 0 include a, review of government
‘employee compensation >! Table 5 provides an esti-
mate of per-capia municipal employee wages and.
salaries foreach set of quintile rankings forthe three
‘urban planning, growth-elated variables.

As the data in Table 5 illustrate, virtually all of
the difference between the highest municipal
expenditure quintile and the lowest is accounted
for (or more than accounted for) by the difference
fn municipal employee compensation per capita
This indicates that differences in employee com-

24. thas been suggested by some that older, more densely populated manips subsidize newer, more sburban muni
pales. In act, however, the nominal analysis indlats the opposite. The quintile of municipalities withthe highest sie
‘nd federal id per capa average 45 yar ld ($852 annually er capt) This is nearly four umes hat fe second
‘quintle (38 years and $218), The three lowest sat and federal ald quintiles have average ages of from 26 031 years.

25, Calculated from US, Census Buresu data for 2000, adding the state and lc government employer pad employee bene
fits factor caeulted fom the National Income and Produ Accouris

26. Includes the costo building new water and Wastewater systems

27. Caleulated fom US, Census Boreau 2001 government employee database

28. The atest avalable comprehensive information on locl government employer paid employee benelts was the 987 US.
CCennus of Goverment, rom which this figure was caleulated

29. Wendell Cax and Samuel A. Brunel, Amercas rovced Clas Il (Wshingzon, D.C: American Legslative Exchange
Council, 1994), p20, Table C3. No sialr data have been published fr locales,

30.Ieis aso likely ha dilferences in hourly employe compensation pe apts would bean important determina of difer-
ences in other government total expenditures, such a at the county, school dsr, township (and comparable gover
‘mens and specal dsc levels


No. 1770 Backerounder June 25, 2004

(rae
| Variation in Municipal Expenditures and Wages and Salaries per Capita: Top Quintiles
aca Goverment Expenditure er Capita

‘Assumed Assocation with Lowest Spending per Capita

| (Garren Uren Planing Asimpton #) ‘cual Average Diference Paring Assumption
Acres Desty Qu su sn no
{2Siowest Groweh Quine sur guia gi9 No
{9 Oldest Communes Quinte san $$ No
| Estimated Wages Salaries per Capita vedo
Dacerein
‘Assumed Association with Lower Spending per Capa Exits Average OforenceExpeniares
A: Higest Desiey Que 7 6 1
{2:Slowest Growth Quine Ho mea ame
£8. Oleest Communes Quine wus SI oe

pensation —not growth factors—may be the stron-

‘est driver of municipal expenditures,

* Population Density. Wages and salaries per
capita tend to rise from quintile 5 (lowest) to
quintile 1, which has, by far, the highest
expenditures in the highest density quintile

+ Population Growth Rate. The highest wage
and salary expenditures per capita are in the
slowest growing quintiles (quintiles 1 and 2),
and lowest in the fastest growing quintiles
quintiles 4 and 5)

+ Municipality Age. As illustrated in Figure 1,
the highest wage and salary expenditures per
capita are in the oldest municipalities (quin-
tiles 1 and 2), with the lowest expenditures in
the newest minicipalities (quintiles 4 and 5).

Each of these conclusions works strongly
sgainst what one might expect from the Current

Urban Planning Assumptions. This is illustrated

by reviewing the data forthe quintiles under each.

Current Urban Planning Assumption that would

be expected to have the lowest expenditures per

capita. Table 6 indicates that differences in
employee compensation alone are more than sulli-
cient to account for the differences in municipal
expenditures per capita—whether by density, pop-

‘ulation growth, or municipality age

* Population Density. The variation from the
average in wages and salaries per capita in the
highest density municipalities is larger (134
times) than the variation from the average for
the same municipalities in local government
expenditures, as shown in Figure 2.

* Population Growth Rate. The variation from
the average in wages and salaries per capita in
the slowest growing municipalities is larger
(2:32 times) than the variation from the aver-

31. Employee compensations estimated using the goss eal goverament wages and salaries dats fom the Census Bureau

database scaled downveard to exlude ut

and eatin and increased by the average 245 percent cost of employer

paid employee benefits. Because wastewater and water expenditures are smal compared to overall municipal expend
tures, twas not considered reliable to estimate wages ad salanes for hese Functions using the same formula


Nem Backprounder—__—.

age forthe same municipalities in local 357
government expenditures
‘+ Municipality Age. The variation from
the ire wags in lates et
in the oldest municipalities is nearly as .
large (0.91 times) as the variation from S700
the average forthe same municipalities in
local government expenditures If the
average employerpaid benefis add-on
included, the variation in employee com-
pensation would be larger than the dir.
ence in expenditures (112 time).
In fact, the impact of increases in local
{government employee compensation has
been far grater than the sprawl-based costs
Projected in Costs of Sprami—2000. From
1980 to 2000, the gross additional local ov

‘emment employee compensation alone in

the United States was nearly $2.2 tion (in
2000 dollas)—or more than $105 billion per AN Alternative Explanation for

P Differences in Municipal Spending:

year. This is approximately 12 times the $9.1 bil-
lion average annual additional cost projected in Political Entrenchment
Costs of Sprawi—2000 22 The generally higher spending levels of the

‘older municipalities may be due to pro
ces. of political entrenchment” that
‘occurs withthe passage of time, The large
‘Spending Per Capita: Municipality Age impact of local government employee
‘Municipal General Expenditures: 2000 ‘compensation indicates that internal
seco 8 employee interests may be a principal fc-
| tor driving municipal expenditures per

Expenditures & Wages and Salaries
ihe Deny Que: Copan to Ara

Bessses a8

capita, According to the nominal ranking

analysis presented in Table 7. there
|“ appears to be a strong relationship
oo between higher employee wages and sala-
ries per capita and higher density, lower
“ population growth rates, community age,
i and higher population—all of which are in.
| ‘opposition to what would be expected if
20 the Current Urban Planning Assumptions

| 5 were correct.

Nee te tte oor to + Population Density. The highest

wages and salaries quintile has the
highest population density. Densities
decrease with each quintile, withthe


nem _—_______ Backgrounder ine 25.2004

lowest wages and. salaries: EET a
quintile “having, the lowest -
population density. ‘Nominal Analysis Results:

+ Fopalaion Growth st, Estimated Wages Solas pe Capita: Quinte
“The highest wages and salaries —
quinale bas the lowest pop bry Geom tepty
lation growth rate. Population | Qe ‘Sates Repent Duty Rae ad Lanna
frowie res incre wah |More) fan Swami
each quintile, except for the wee 22 a is eS on
highest growth quintile quin- eam en sit
tle 3) The second-astes [IES Rm a km
growing quintle (quintile 4) [sme $00 stam oma
has the highest population
growth te

‘© Municipality Age. The high-
(est wages and salaries quintile more susceptible to special-interest capture,
has the oldest average municipality age. Com- hether employe, business, labor, or other. Gen:
munity age decreases with each quinile with erally can be expected thatthe influence of nd
the lowest wages and salaries quintle being igual voters would be les in larger jurisdictions

3 Youngest and that special interests would be more likely to
Perhaps reflecting such entrenchment, older exert control. Larger jurisdictions would seem to

‘municipalities have often been notably resistant to provide economies of scale for lobbying. It would

cosvefective management innovations such a8 Seem reasonable tat where there i greater oppor-

Pavatization, competitive contracting, more lexi- tunity for special-interest contol, goverment

ble labor arrangements, and innovative manage- costs are likely to be higher, The data in Table 7

ment techniques.® For example, the oldest indicate that the highest wages and salaries quin-

quintile of minicipalies had a general govern- tile (utile 1) has an average population that is
ment expenditure level 23 percent higher than the more than 50 percent larger than average, and that
youngest (Table 5). the average population of each succeeding quintile
Ie must be pointed out, however, that employee lower. The lowest wages and salaries quintile
compensation 1s not likely to be the only cost (quintile 5) has the lowest popultion—approxi-
function that could be exercising undo special- mately one-half the average. This finding is
interes influence on the costs of local govern. counter to another widely held urban planning
ments, Other poitial interests not quantified (and assumption: that larger units of government are
perhaps not quantifiable) may also exercise an more costeffecive due to economies of scale

{impact on municipal spending Allof this seems to indicate that municipal costs

Larger governmental unise—which also tend tos more susceprible to overwhelming influence
bbe more dense and older™—may be inherenuly by political interests than they are to economics

33, This slusuated by the ease of public tans. In 2001, none af the spprosimatly 100 older want systems (esblished
‘before 1980 or descended rom pre-1980 systems) n major mezopobtan areas compeaively contracted thet bus systems
By contrast, 36 percent ofthe newer, largely subachan sjsterscompeciveyconzat thei bus systems. See Wendell Cox,
Performance Metres Urban Publ Transport, paper presented othe 8th International Conference on Compete and
‘Oxmership in Pub Tanspon, Rio de Janezo, 2003, twin publcparposecom-gh pdf jue 15,2004).

‘4. This esearch indicates hat the highest population quinsle aso has the highest population density and the highest expen-
dures per capa


No. 170

——____ Backgrounder —____

June 25, 2004

‘Theoretical studies, such as Costs of Sprawl—2000
ray suffer from what might be called the “Tengih
of pipe lallacy’—the assumption that labor rates,
cost of materials, and the costs associated with
apparently similar projects is the same in every
Jocal,government junsdiction in a metropolitan
area. In fact, older, inner-city government labor
rates are often higher than suburban rates: Over-
heads may be higher and certainly the operating
environment can be more challenging. For exam-
ple, expansion of an inner-city sewer system is
Tikely to be far more costly than laying @ new one
ina greenfield area

“Entrenchment” may have first been noted by
‘Adam Smith in The Wealth of Nations. He pointed
‘ut that historical control of guilds in the older cit-
les had produced a situation in which prices were
lower in the suburbs, which were beyond the
reach of the gullés. Tis kept prices in the older
cities above market levels ® Economist Mancur
Olson similarly postulated that, as time goes on,
political and special interests become more
entrenched in older national governments.”
Stronger bureaucracies, more powerful employee
organizations, strong ‘local. business interests,
political interests, and more rigid operating proce
dures may have developed over a longer time
period. These may force costs in older municipali-
ties to be higher than they would be in newer
‘municipalities,

An “entrenchinent” theory of municipal finance
would be consistent with the findings of econo-
‘mist Charles Tiebout, who argued that people tend
to “vote with their feet"—to move to newer com-
‘munities that better meet their desires and needs.
Relative tax levels were an important component

of this thesis, which characterized the new subur-
ban communities as competing with one another
for new residents 2°

Conclusions and Policy Implications

‘Our analysis indicates that the Current Urban
Planning Assumptions are of virtually no value in
predicting local goverament expenditures per cap-
ita, The lowest local government expenditures per
capita are notin the higher density, slower grow-
ing, and older municipalities.

(On the contrary, the actual data indicate that the
lowest expenditures per capita tend to be in
medium- and lowerdensity municipalities
(hough not the lowest density); medium- and
fastergrowing municipalities; and newer munici-
palties. This is ater 50 years of unprecedented
urban decentralization, which seems to be more
than enough time to have developed the pur-
ported urban spraw/-telated higher local govern-
ment expenditures. It seems unlikely chat the
higher expenditures that did not develop due to
sprawl inthe last 50 years will evolve in the next
20—despite predictions to the contrary in The
Cost of Sprawl-—2000 research

1k seems much more likely that the diferences
in municipal expenditures per capita are the result
f politica, rather than economic factors, espe-

ly the iniuence of special interests

—Wendell Cox, Principal ofthe Wendell Cox Con-
sultancy in metropolitan St, Luts, isa Visiting Fellow
‘at The Heritage Foundation and a Visiting Professor at
the Conservatoire National des Ars et Meters in
Paris Joshua Ut isa PRD. candidate in Economics at
Washington State Univesity and an Adjunct Fellow at
the Discovery Institue in Seite, Washington

35. For eample, in Los Angles—where many ans services ae sponsored by newer, suburban agencis—coss per hour of
service are 49 percent lower where provided under contact by agencies aher than the core trans syste Wendel Cox, Co
ene Paragon n US. Pubic Tepe Special rests Vers the Public Ire paper preseted to the Bis nermational
‘Conference on Competition and Ownership in Land Pasenger Transport, Rode Janeiro, 2003, t wexpubcpurpae com

sweep une 15,2004).

36. Adam Smith, The Wealth of Nations (New York: Moder Library 1957), p 129.

37. For example, sucha tear is developed by Mancut Olson, The Rise and Decne of Nations: Ezonom Growth, Sagan and
‘Sadl Rigs (New Haven and London: Yale University Presa, 1982

238. Chaties M.Tebout "A Pure Theory of Leal Government Expenditures,” Journal of Pla! Economy, Oetaber 1956,


Now 1770 —____ Backerot inder. June 25, 2004

APPENDIX

Wastewater Charges Model: Wastewater Charges per Capita
Dependent Variable: Wastewater Charges

Praca
Signeance
Sevsceal_ (sty st
Wiibes Conic Means Su.Eror Prabity Siuance the Mean)
roms cmon seo 21602 ane aos
HAGE 000m? 286 27H on oom |
DeNSTY = omomess etm) mmm
Pork or) ORO eco!
PriHLD om 268 amma
ownoces 21) Oh tk tom
Houses comma) asi? aces oa
| sem oo 0 otek
| anes eco? ma 905m ROM
| Reqared ermemo% 012
| Obsenatos 18
| Water Charges Model: Water Charges per Capita
Dependent Variable: Water Charges
Pratt
| Signteace
| Sex! (soy at
| irsbler ——Cancane Means Se ror Protbiey Signe the Met)
| Por2000 ‘a0en0000056, 95584 21608 on 004
| nace ams} 31 EN 0%
DENSITY ammo 30am] om aS
Porx oo = atom ‘om
| ero om 271 ool a6
OWNOCCK dildo em as
| wouses omnis sass 3258 om le
| sex am 0 OO NN
| asea omens a7 AGS 205
| required a)
Otnerone 7

Bree Pmt

No. 1770

‘Summary of Econometric and Nominal Analysis Results:

Wastewater Charges per Capita

a pena
Fopulaion Density Dest Expenditures
Hee (1) 7996 sis
Higher @) 0 3107
dale) Po si7
Lower (4) vs su7
Lowe (5) ™ sin
‘ergs (ean) 340 sn

Maxima Dierence

Summary of Econometric and Nominal Analysis Results:

Water Charges per Capita
cunt

Popustion Desiy expenditures
Highest) 307
Higher @) $3
idle (3) $0
Lower (t) $7
Lowest) $9
‘Average (Mean) 37
Maximum Diference 48

RanleAcust
Ependures


N

00% D ’

Petre creer err Gctommtarae
corm tntu
sowecc tte
mnomonsc
Gnomeanat

Serene 3, 2008
ete: 914-005
Viena end Mal

Region of Hon

Picning ant Temporation Dopatnest

Tist Rent See

Oakville, Ontario

tant

Ateion; Ms. Ania Paes, Manager Ply

Dear Ant:

1X: Sutanabl Halton Werkng Paper - Locating New Urban Land

‘Potential Long-term Employment Land Needs in the Town of Milton

We are the Planning Consultant to Orlando Corporation. Their interest is primarily with
‘the Region's urban structure and the establishment of viable long-term employment growth areas
in Halton region.

Introduction:

We have been participating inthe Region's Sustainable Halton Plan (SHIP) process with
respect to the Region's consideration for addtional urban land to accommodate the projested
‘growth in the Region tothe year 2031. We have made previous submission tothe Region in
commenting on the Region’s Technical Report entled “Land Supply Analysis” prepared by
Hemson Consulting Lid (May 2007). As well, Orlando Corporation has recently made a
submission tothe Town of Milton dealing wih the Town's consideration of input to the
Region's SHP Growth Concepts (see Appendix A).

‘Our comments on the Region's long-term employment land needs have been consistent in
‘our previous submissions tothe Region and the Town in that:

‘© We support the long-term protection (beyond 2031) of wel-located and competitive
‘employment land that will attract industries and can be developed expeditiously;

‘© We expressed concems that the 600 hectare (1,500 acre) new employment land supply
target recommended by Hemson Consulting Lid. is understated based on the type of |
‘employment growth that the Region will se over the next 24 years and beyond ncaa casa cat

sr
osu Orme
sea
‘essa
a 0
ea vee

VAt

GLEN SCHNARR & ASSOCIATES INC,

fc Puaeuins, Lana BUveLeretnt Co

‘© Webelieve the 37.5 employees per net ha (epnh) used by Hemson Consulting Lid. to
determine the Regional employment land needs is to high specifically forthe
‘employment land that we anticipate wil be required in Halton Region, and the Region
vill ultimately require more land to accommodate future employment land needs; and,

‘© Itis not sufficient to just identify « quantum of future employment lands as topography,

environmental constrains, locaton and proximity to major tansportation infastructare
and appropriate interface with residential areas are additional criteria to evaluate viable
and competitive employment lands.

‘The purpose of our submission herein isto provide our comments on the Sustainable
‘Halton Working Paper #1 ~ Locating New Urban Land and to augment our previous submission
1 the Region.

‘General Comments:

‘The determination of employment land requirements to aocommodate the Growth Plan
Job projections to 2031 cannot be undertaken simply by making assumptions ebout average
‘employment density and vacancy factors. The Region needs to recognize tha there willbe a
continuing and increasing demand for distribution, warehousing and logistics. ‘The potential risk
inherent in intervening this employment trend through planning policy is that if the policy
implementation is not reflective of market realities and demends into te future, the Region will
‘ot be able to compete with other Souther Ontario municipalities, which may be more open and
receptive to industries looking for industrial land to operate distribution, warehousing and
logistics facilites in Halton Region. This could result in significant loss of industrial tax base for
the Region.

As such, the Region's ability to confirm additional employment land needs in Halton
Region requires more detailed land budget analysis and density studies. Regional staff
acknowledge this need and we understand that such studies are currently underway. As well, the
Province recently released the Background Paper entitled “Planning for Employment in the
Greater Golden Horseshoe” (May 2008), which is intended to generate discussion on the issues
and challenges to achieving a more proactive and collaborative approach to employment land
planning inthe Greater Golden Horseshoe. It is hopeful thatthe Province will provide a clear
irection and guidance to the municipalities on a consistent and practical approach to
determining land needs that will sustain the Region's economy into the future within the
timeframe thatthe Region completes the detailed land budget and density studies.

‘We have strong reservations about the results ofthe Sustainable Halton Land Supply
Analysis (May 2007) prepared by Hemson Consulting Lid in thet we feel thatthe preliminary
requirement of 600 hectares of designated employment land needs to 2031 is insufficient to
‘rovide an appopriste mix end type of employment and a right balance of jobs to population
ratio, AS well, we believe that the frictional vacancy factor has been understated by Hemson
‘Consiting Lid. and thatthe employment and employment share of future employment growth
Nee ae

Glen Schnarr & Associates Inc. Page 2

248

IS] GLEN SCHNARR & ASSOCIATES INC.
Urvae & Reevonat Puaweens, Cane Devt

‘should be at least equal to that currently (approximately 60.6%), rather than the 50.5% assumed
by Hemson. The issue of employment density is very much intertwined to what proportion of
‘the employment land employment will be allocated to and extensive uses such as warehousing,
<stribution and logistics and what type of outlook does the Region assume from the impacts of
automation ofthese facilities that wll further create the need for lower employee density or more
land extensive industrial uses.

We intend to provide more detailed comments on the issues related to land needs for
{future submissions once the Region releases the short-list of grow options later this year
However, at this time, we would like to share our observations on the appropriate employment
density releted to warehousing, distribution and logistics uses. Firstly, as shown on the attached
table in Appendix B, we have evaluated the mix of employment land uses within the Churchill
‘Business Park that Orlando Corporation recently have developed at the southwest quadrant of
‘Mississauga Road and Steeles Avenue just north of Highway 407 in the City of Brampton. The
‘Churchill Business Park is approximately 80 hectares (200 acres) in size and encompasses a mix
of office, warehousing and distribution uses. Based on the total site area and the number of
‘employees, we celculate that the average density is 12 employees/gross hectare. This is very

comparable tothe information from the Intemational Warehousing and Logistics Association
‘(Canadian Branch) in that:

‘© Light industrial distribution and assembly yields approximately 9 to 10 employees/gross
hectare;

‘© Warehousing and logistics group yields a range of approximately 5 to 6 employees/gross
hectare; and,

‘© Warehousing and logistics group with automated facility yields around 1 employee/gross
hectare.

‘The type of industry mix within the Churchill Business Park is more reflective of the
light industrial distribution and assembly as noted above by the International Warehousing and
Logistics Association but with a greater office uses.

Emplovment Land Needs Analvsis Required:

Although we have provide one example of information source above, one ofthe greatest
Inurdles we se i the lack of common data on reliable employment density by industrial sub-
sectors (.e, manufacturing, distribution, warehousing, logistics, et.). To exacerbate this
problem, an average density of employment has been used to determine future employment land
reeds, which isnot reflective of curent and future market demands and realities. Asa result,
‘one major mistake being made by growth municipalities is the gross underestimation of land
needs for warehousing, distribution and logistics. To assist the Region on furthering the
understanding of how employment densities relate to these uses, we have retained BI Group to
‘assist us and the Region in advising how bes to analyse and determine an appropriate
‘employment land needs in Halton Region so that eppropriate amount of employment land is
we
Glen Schnarr & Associates Inc. Page 3

LA


GLEN SCHNARR & ASSOCIATES INC.

Uheay t Rcoionas Puaeares, Lane acyeveracay Consuatants

‘designated that will support the pace of residential growth to be anticipated in Halton Region
‘over the long-term.

A telling factor between the lands designated by municipalities versus market demands
for these lands is that Orlando Corporation in over 60 years of its corporate growth has never
purchased non-designated land until just recently. This is dve tothe current situation inthe west
GTA that there isa significant lack of designated employment land in the right location and with
appropriate topography unencumbered by environmental constraints,

Part ofthe problem, which the Region and the Town has enunciated through is response
to the Province on their employment pape, is the proposed employment targets outlined inthe
Growth Plan are unrealistic, particularly in Halton Region, In order for municipalities to
‘compete in the global marketplace, the Province needs o be flexible on the planning horizon for
‘employment land planning so thatthe municipalities have the option and opportunity to protect
‘well-positioned, viable and competitive employment lands into the longer term planning horizon
‘beyond 2031.

‘We understand the benefits for municipalities to obtain higher order jobs (.e. office,
research and development, etc). The potential risk to allocating more job targets into the more
intensive and higher order employment lands and under-estimating the need for land extensive
‘employment land is that less land has been set aside to accommodate the distribution,
‘warehousing and logistics sector. We recognize that policy intervention may have an effect in
attracting more higher order jobs but the potential risk is thatthe Region may dramatically
‘under-supply the growing warehousing, distribution and logistics sector to drive them into
surounding municipalities

Inthe absence of clearly understanding the dynamics of employment sectors in Halton
Region and the outlook of growth in these sub-sectors, we strongly recommend that the Region's
‘focus ough o be onthe merits of evaluating and locating viable and competitive employment

Jands in Milton that supports the Region's Joint Submission to the Province on their Background
Paper eattled “Planning for Employment inthe Greater Golden Horseshoe” (May 2008) ad the
‘Town's recently adopted First Principles as they relate to the Region's Sustainable Halton Plan

process. We support the Regions and the Town’s position to the Province that a wide range and
mlx of employment ought to be designated and made available in Halton Region.

‘As supported by Town of Milton Council at its meeting on September 22%, the Region
needs to recognize and support Milton Council that lands along Highway 401 and Highway 407
and lands within easy access to the main CN and CP rail line provide unique development
‘opportunity and viability for goods movement. Much ofthese lands are generally lat and are
‘unencumbered by environmental constraints, which provide large tracts of viable employment
uses that are easily accessible by rail and by major road corridor connecting to Highway 401 and
Highway 407. The Region’s support for the Town's preferred employment areas ensures that the
Region achieves its strategic objective of maximizing employment development opportunity to

Glen Schnarr & Associates Inc. Page 4

260

GLEN SCHNARR & ASSOCIATES INC.

Wiese b Rtasonas Puaswees, Lane Beviuarueny Cousutranes

‘optimize long-term job creation, increase in skilled labour force and stable long-term municipal
‘tc base forthe Town and the Region.

‘We recognize that the Region will be evaluating the employment land needs asthe
‘Sustainable Halton Plan is further advanced and we expect that additional and more detailed
‘comments will be submitted through the Region’s process. We look forward to our continued
dialogue and we look forward to receiving your feedback on our submission and we are eager to
‘continue to work with the Region on the Sustainable Halton Plan process. We would be pleased
tomeet with you and your staff to discuss our comments herein in more detail. Please call us if
you heve any questions.

‘Yours very tuly,

ce: Mario Belvedere, Town of Milton
Me! lovio, Town of Milton
Bill Mann, Town of Milton

TESS EEE ed
Glen Schnarr & Associates Inc. Page 5

28

205 Ag ok Mins, Onl LAV IES Tepane: (5) 672400 Px (09 67204

Ph King Fag.
Pre

September 22, 2008

Mayor and Members of Council
‘Town of Mitton

43 Brown Street

‘Milton, Ontario

Lor Si

‘Members of Council:
Re: PD 076-08

We have reviewed the staff report dated September 22, 2008 titled “Town of Milton
Response to Five Refined Growth Concepts” and have the following comments

‘We support the prefered land use concept plan attached as Appendix A to the Report,
particularly a it relates tothe proposed designation of employment lands associated with
Highway 401, Highway 407 and north of James Snow Parway.

‘We support the long-term protection of well located employment lands.

We will continue to work with the Town, Region and Province to ensure that the lands
sulabe for longterm employment ia the Towa of Milton be identified and protected.

ur consultants are curently working on a submission to the Region which willbe in
support of the direction Milton is taking and will provide additional materials for
consideration.

Ut


APPENDIX A (

Town of Milton 2
September 22, 2008

Our submission will identity that it is not sufcint to just identify « quantum of future
employment lands. We submit that topography of the lands, impact of environment
features, location and proximity to major transportation infrastructure and proximity to
residential are additional criteria to be evaluated for selection and protection of
‘employment lands.

‘We look forward to continuing to work with Council and Staff on this issue.

‘Yours very try,
ORLANDO CORPORATION

wheal Eng.

President
PK/ea

sosse.1

23

axrangaav uy smepossy w arewtps UID J
—————————S———————
weDe A 16618 a 3S PU0}832H1 OF
“pnp payeaT PUR
rnvedde pepunig seu zat
(Pur ‘seunppeynuew ‘subisep | Ou} ‘(epeued)
“au (epeueD)J00pNO 4A| _J00BINO 4A see'esz| zrosvz| 6z| oel'e| re mojioni op
ssonee
|B poddns sayyo you} — (weequns)
'sp00; pefiexped souunsuoD jo ‘suopnios (2a yun)
s¢_| ge | susnoyaemz vonqnsg | sounsuoo uomer | ey'ut| cer'eez| cuo'sse | zer| ese'ze| 1s mojaett oes
"seuiyoeul Kdooojoud
pue sjenuew uoreraeu
“Sourzebe 3004
‘oven 10 Aysnpu‘spaposd | ph (epevED)
2 | Jeded ow s6eg | dese dndeey | sy6t| ty,
“Amores uoRNGUysiP Ou) epeued
| is Besnoyaren SHWVGAG | _JooNKEOL scot
"3pe0} pepueg jo seeavent | “09 epeueD
ov Zz | Jeunpeynuey Buipes) | jo Spoo4 seyONWS als
“seouenddy 9 sowane
Ployseno} jo seoiies | “ou; epeuE
| o A uomnquisia  Buisnoyauey\ | s21U08903 “97 zest

onpoxT
p09} yeyeu jgeunsuco | uoyerodiog
dsp exis ‘snieoa:| —epeuen


sxianaaav aur saiepossy 9 ane WIN

ee CE ee
N
H

auepay sso16/sqof Zt :Aysuap oBesoAy
(sas 2-TST) sexeoY S°EZ FoUe OyIS [EOL
Sqof £28 :seakojduse Jo soquinu [e90,

[sso zee | eter | saz'vec'e | SIVIOL
uO
wexgnos uy seis sui
‘ayqeusuedjeonpod 20016 |
ouognqiea goes | dog ony
sze_| 2 | omsjimoeuowanea| epeveouevem ovez| veoisr| sieusy| ex, _exi'ee| aparo sen cece

ov | st ‘Binddiys sora | _epeved eu ¥€6| zev'osi | eoviort | 9| _6a0'6 | __ 8 PuoyeteH 9


7K

September 30, 2008
‘To: Halton Region Planning Staff and Halton Region Council

Subject: Growth Strategy

From: Leslie Adams on behalf of Protect Our Water and Environmental Resources
P.O.W.ER)

Dear Halton Council and Regional Staff;

Protect Our Water and Environmental Resources (P.0.W-E.R) is a thriving not-for-profit,
‘community based organization committed to protecting the environment and the quality of ie in
North Halton and beyond. P.O.W.ER. was formed in 1987 by citizens concerned about a plan to
tum the Acton quarry, on the Niagara Escarpment, into garbage dump. The dump was stopped
‘but the importance of protecting water, environmental resources and ecology, and the Ni
‘Escarpment Biosphere Reserve, continues.

P.O.WEER and ts broad-based membership and partners work to, educate, foster actions and
<evelop measured solutions that address unsustainable patterns and approaches that affect our
‘quality of life andthe heath of our planet. We believe that a healthy environment i the
foundation for a bright future. Recognizing this, P.O.W.ER, works to develop prouctive projects,
‘programs, directions and polices that recognize the necessity, importance, value and role of
‘natural spaces, native species and ecosystem function and flows for sustainable communities,

POWER seks to engage people from al walks of lf, in both ther professional and personal
spheres of influence, to learn about, take responsibility for and take scton olive in fashion that
moves towards sustainability

POWER blurb

1)P.O.W.ER. supports good land use planning in principle. In this vein, we would like
to note that there is a subtle but substantial difference between growth and development.
Itis our position that we should be looking at a development strategy to accommodate
forecasted increases in population and employment lands, not a growth strategy. The
‘message in selecting “growth” strategy not “development” strategy signals, in our minds,
the fact that development can proceed without the necessity for growing at a rate that
‘exceeds the carrying capacity ofthe landscape.

2) tis P.O.W.ER''s understanding that there are two June 2009 deadlines that are
Tooming in the distance which form a time constraint to the way in which this important
exercise is being handled. One deadline is that of the D3 deferral area (ROPA 25) in
Halton Hills and the other being the necessity to conform to Places to Grow. It is our
understanding that there is the opportunity to push both the deadlines forward if
nevessary. Given that several layers of information are not yet available (ie. LEAR.
study, Carrying Capacity Study, Intensification Studies, Aggregate Strategy), P.O.W.ER.
recommends that the deadline be pushed back to the degree possible.

3) As mentioned above, itis ofthe utmost importance that relevant studies are completed
‘and ample time for both staff and the public to review them prior to weighing in on
where, if necessary, the urban boundary should be enlarged. P.O.W.E.R. recommends

Sees POWER. SS

27

that a robust carrying capacity study, using an ecological footprint methodology must be
‘completed to better understand where we are in relation to carrying capacity.

Further P.O.W-ER. recommends that the Region seriously consider waiting to signal
‘where lands, if necessary, will be brought into the urban boundary. It is our
understanding that inthe Provincial Policy Statements, there isa requirement to have @
minimum of 10 years of developable lands inside the urban boundary. If this requirement
is followed, given that Halton has sufficient lands til 2021, the expansion of the urban
boundary would have to take place by 2021. P.O.W-E.R. believes that this would be the
‘most prudent approach as future legislation may incur more sustainable development
practices

4) The Evaluation Framework against which the $ scenarios are evaluated is good
‘beginning for a comprehensive framework to guide development in Halton based on the
Halton Region Strategic Plan. Ina preliminary review there are some gaps inthe
framework such asthe recognition of our Natural Heritage system as being part of our
[Natural Infrastructure and the silence onthe importance of our hydrogeological and
surface water resources. Itis also hard to determine in what way background papers have
been incorporated into the Evaluation Framework and wiat role the studies not yet
‘completed will inform scenario evaluation. We believe that the framework is an
{important tol in the evaluation of development in the Region and we are optimistic that
the framework willbe sed in a fashion akin to an adaptive management approach in
‘Which the framework will constantly be reviewed and altered to ensure that the needed
‘outcomes are attained. P,O.W.E.R, would appreciate the opportunity to discuss the
framework with staff

'5) In trying to give the Region a response that “identifies a preferred option” the task is
not attainable as there are several critical studies that are not yet completed. As such these
‘comments are general in nature and do not reflect a “preferred scenario” or “our own,
map" Once the studies are completed and we have had an opportunity to incorporate the
information, P.O.W.E.R. may then put forward a conceptual may

6) There are many more recommendations and comments we could make but are limited
by the availabilty of time and resources. We will be coming forward with comments on
the other elements that make up Sustainable Halton, P.O.W.E.R. belioves that one ofthe
‘most important elements is the development and implementation ofan ongoing
stakeholder framework forthe Region to facilitate ongoing movement towards
sustainability. By adopting a collaborative approach, that i in constant dialogue with

vil society in Halton, we fe! thatthe limited time and resource availablity of groups
like P.O.W.ER. and others wil be better organized and allow for an ongoing
contribution to sustainable Halton, Please accept and consider the following
recommendations forthe Growth Strategy Portion of Sustainable Halton. There are
offered in good faith and represent, we belive, ral gains fora sustainable future.

7) Population Targets, Intensification, Greenfields and Urban Boundary Expansion
tis our understanding thatthe population targets wer alloted based on trends and
activites a the time ofthe writing ofthe Hemson report. It appears that the reason forthe

REM POWER Sitamsas| 72%


In addressing water security in Halton Hills, a comprehensive analysis of water
withdrawls/licenses and water availability must play into the decisions for development.
fuses are impacting the needs ofthe residents, steps to achieve a balance must be
sought.

P.O.WEE.R. would like to submit for consideration that its apparent that water scarcity is
‘an ongoing and increasing concem for existing urban, Greenfield, urban boundary
‘expansions and private land owners, and that the amount of the water that is sustainable
(Le does not draw down the base amount ofthe resource or Natural Capital) is a fixed
amount across the Region. P.O.W.E.R. also recognizes that available water forall users
isa fixed amount not only on a watershed basis but as well on aon a lake Ontario,
National and Global basis

Based on the above it is P.O.W-E.R.’s position that significant efforts for residenti
development should be directed to and attained through 2 local system that does not
incorporate lake based servicing. Further, the Region should support that Halton Hills
move towards becoming an ultra Water efficient community serviced through ground
‘water for residential development. This approach would serve the residents of Halton
Hills, Halton Region and beyond as we move towards water security forthe future.

‘The subject is extremely important and highly complex. P.O.W.ERR. believes that a
system approach is warranted,

10) Natural Heritage System
In discussions with Regional staff, it was our understanding thatthe enhanced Natural
Heritage Systems had allready been endorsed and voted on by Regional Council. it was
also our understanding thatthe largest land base option had been accepted. In re3viewing
<documents and listening to Milton and Halton Hills Council itis unclear as to the status
of the Natural Heritage System. P.O.W.ER. would appreciate clarity on what isthe
status of the Natural Heritage System. We would also like to put forward to the Region
thatthe Natural Heritage System is ALSO a Natural Infrastructure System and should be
‘considered as such, We are not familiar with the Biodiversity Centres concept but would
like to discuss and pursue the matter and believe that we have a very good candidate site
for a Centre as well asthe possibility of creating an EcoMuseum in Halton Hills, Finally
‘we support the expanded Natural Heritage System but fel that, under some of the
scenarios/maps put forward, the integrity of North South connections is compromised,

11) Agricultural Lands
In considering the agricultural lands in Halton, it is P.O.W.E.R.’s position that we need
to ensure sufficient lands in Halton to mest the basic needs of the population. Further,
sven that the available agricultural lands in the Greater Toronto Area is disappearing at
‘an alarming rate, there is a fundamental need and responsibility to work towards
‘maintaining agricultural lands to meet the basic needs ofthe Greater Toronto Area to the
degree possible. Farm Land Trusts, Biolntensive Agriculture and other models must be
investigated to ensure our food lands are vibrant and productive.

Exromerateccrces PLOM.E.R. Sees


11) In closing, given that P.O.W.E.R. and others in the community have not had the
‘opportunity to see what development proposals are being suggested from the competing,
interest vis a vis urban boundary expansion for residential development, itis impossible
to suggest which lands would be most appropriate from a sustainable development
perspective. P.O.W.ER. would like to recommend that the Region ask the different
‘developers if they would be comfortable in showing civil society organizations their
‘concepts for development.

‘Thank you

Leslie Adams
President P.O.W.ER.

ones DOWER. Snes

Al

