of Brockville

a

BROCKVILLE Council
BROCRVIEE September 18,2010- 7.00 PM
Council Minutes Memorial Cente Community Hall

Roll Cal

Council Members:
Mayor D. Henderson
Councilor J. Baker
Councillor G. Beach
Couneillor J. Earle
Councillor J. Fullarton
Councilor L. Journal
Councilor M. Kalivas
Councillor H. Noble
Councillor L. Severson
Councillor S. Wiliams

Staff:
Ms. T. Brons (Recording Secretary)

Mr. B. Casselman, City Manager

Mr. C. Cosgrove, Director of Operations
Faurschou, Planner |

J.
IA.

M. Pascoe Merkley, Director of Planning
Ms. S. Seale, City Clerk

Others:
Mr. G. Bender, Senior Planner, MMM Group

Mr. S. Wills, Vice President, Ottawa Region, MMM Group
‘The meeting was video recorded by Brockville News,

MAYOR'S REMARKS
Mayor Henderson welcomed everyone to the Special Meeting of Council

DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST
NIL

City of Brockville
Council - Meeting Minutes - Wednesday, September 15, 2010

ITTEE OF THE WHOLE COUNCIL
Moved by: Councillor Williams.

‘THAT we adjourn and meet as Commitee of the Whole Council, with the Mayor in
the Chair.
CARRIED

PUBLIC MEETING PURSUANT TO THE PLANNING ACT

Mayor Henderson announced the Public Meeting by stating that pursuant to Section
417 of the Planning Act, Council fr the City of Brockvil is conducting a Public
Meeting with respect the new Official Plan forthe City

M. Pascoe-Merkley, Director of Planning, advised that that notice of the Public
‘Meeting was provided in the Recorder and Times and the EMC Thousand Islands on
August 26, 2010, City Website, letters were mailed to the persons required by the
Planning Act, and local agencies were advised.

‘The Mayor stated the following:

"Any persons who wish to receive a copy of the minutes of the public meeting, a
copy of the proposed Official Plan or notice of the adoption ofthe proposed Offic
Plan, should give their full name, address and postal code to the Clerk prior to
leaving the meeting.

If'a person or public body does not make oral submissions at the public meeting or
‘make written submissions to the City of Brockville before the proposed Official Plan
is adopted, the person or public body is not entitled to appeal the decision of the City
of Brockville to the Ontario Municipal Board,

Ifa person or public body does not make oral submissions at a public meeting or
‘make written submissions to the cty of Brockville before the proposed amendment
to the Official Plan is adopted, the person or public body may not be added as a
party to the hearing of an appeal before the Ontario Municipal Board unless, in the
‘pinion of the board, there are reasonable grounds to add the person or public body
aa party.”

‘The Mayor announced the procedure for the Public Meeting as follows:

|) Mr. Greg Bender, Senior Planner with MMM Group, will make a presentation with
respect to the proposed new Official Plan.

City of Brockville
Council - Meeting Minutes - Wednesday, September 15, 2010

ii) Council will then hear from any persons present who wish to make oral or writen
‘submissions on the proposed Official Plan. Speakers should announce their name,
address and postal code for the record.

Pre-registered delegates will be heard in priority, and then we will hear from any
‘other persons wishing to speak

All persons wishing to address the issues should direct their comments and
questions through the Chait.

Presentation by MMM Group

‘Mr. Greg Bender, Senior Planner with MMM Group provided a presentation with
respect to the proposed new Offical Plan

Proposed new City of Brockville Official Plan Submissions:
Section 17 of the Planning Act requires a public meeting to be held for the purpose
Of giving the public an opportunity to make representations in respect of the final
Draft of the Official Plan.

‘Any person may attend the public meeting and/or make written or verbal
representation either in support or in opposition to the proposed Official Plan.

Registered Delegations:
Robert Millar (7 Grant Street, Brockville, ON K6V 5K8)

Mr. Millar indicated that in his opinion, as a retired Transportation Engineer, the Draft
Official Plan does not include an adequate high level Transportation Pian
component.

(See written submission attached)

Mr. Collin Williams (173 Church Street, Brockville, ON K6V 3Y4)
(on behalf of Citizens of Brockville)

Mr. Williams noted that he feels the new Official Plan does not address affordable
housing issues and indicated that he feels the plan has weak content.

Ms. Celia Metcalfe (178 Hartley Street, Brockville, K6V 3N6)
(on behalf of Citizens Brockville)

City of Brockville
Council - Meeting Minutes - Wednesday, September 15, 2010

Ms. Metcalfe noted that the central waterfront area deserves more attention to
‘cultural heritage and for future development the City should restrain building mass
{or the waterfront area and offered the following suggestions:

8) separate central waterfront from downtown for more protective planning
purposes, but keep mixed use

b) incorporate clear citizen input and restrain building mass by favouring a public.
walkway

©) enhance the plan to create a more inspiring and vibrant. Transition the City’s
front yard, its waterfront, to the serenity of private homes by creating a
beautiful outdoor vista as an attraction to visitors:

4d) incorporate more learning's from other waterfront cites into the plan

€) postpone adoption of the new Official Pian until after the 2010 Election.

‘Ms. Edwina Lee Fort (164 pearl St. W. Brockville, K6V 48)
(on behalf Citizens Brockville)

Ms. Fort commented that there is a need from more affordable housing in Brockville
and this should be one of the responsibilties of the new Official Plan. She noted that
the new Official Plan is lacking a percentage of affordable housing requirements.

Mr. Clift White (100 Strowger Boulevard, Brockville, K6V 5Y6)

‘Mr. White, on behalf of a group of businessmen and landowners in Brockville, stated
concems with respect to the implementation of the plan. As per the written
submission, attached, Mr. White recommended the following’

2) support the need for downtown revitalization and the requirement for high
density residential development in order to achieve this goal

») request consideration for the extension of municipal services along Highway
28 tothe city limits on Centennial Road to be included inthe Official Plan and
to be implemented as soon as possible to support existing businesses in the
‘area and to encourage development and growth in this sector

©) request consideration of widening Highway 29 to four lanes to be included in
the Official Plan as soon as possible

4) postpone adoption ofthe new Official Pian until after the 2010 Election.

Additional Delegatios

Ms. Hannelore Walther (33 Edward Street, Brockville, KEV 5K3)

‘Ms. Walther asked if consideration has been given to Healthy Communities
Initiatives and Age Friendly Community Intiatives.

City of Brockville
Council - Meeting Minutes - Wednesday, September 15, 2010

Mr. G. Bender, MMM Group, indicated that the Ontario Professional Planners
Institute worked with the World Health Organization to develop their own Healthy
Communities Initiative; however, the two groups noted have not been specifically
reviewed.

Mr. Sandie McKenzie (33 Fairknowe Drive, Brockville, ON KBV 16)

Mr. MeKenzie noted concern about how many other high rise developments are
included within the new Official Plan. Mr. McKenzie commented that he feels more
development on the waterfront would have a negative impact on the City.

M. Pascoe-Merkley, Director of Planning noted that there are two projects (Tall
‘Ships Landing and Brockville Landings) which are included in the Official Plan and
the other areas indicated are shown as areas for opportunities for future
development. She also indicated that future development would require applications
to City Council for approval

Mr. Simon Fuller (2781 Rowatt Street, Ottawa, ON)

Mr. S. Fuller commented that he supports the separation of the downtown and the
waterfront. He noted concern that the Official Plan removes Floor Space Index (FS!)
‘and that the only protection on building massing with the current Offical Plan is.
angular plane.

Mr. Fuller also noted that he feels there is a problem with hydro service in the
historic downtown and that without proper planning there is nothing in place to
‘ensure that the overhead wires are removed in the downtown.

Mr. Don Glover (101 Hartley Street, Brockville, K6V 3N4)

Mr. D. Glover commented on the language within the proposed new Official Pian as
being weak, permissive and vague. Mr. Glover submitted written comments which
are attached.

Mr. Brent Collett (51 King Street East, Brockville, K6V 1A8)

Mr. B. Collett noted that he is a Surveyor and Planner that works closely with the
development community in the Brockville area and commented that he agrees with
Mr. Clift White's comments with respect to Highway 28.

Mr. Collett commented that certain areas in Brockville have been approved for
development but they are areas that are difficult or impossible to develop on,
resulting in interested investors needing to locate elsewhere. He recommended

City of Brockville
Council - Meeting Minutes - Wednesday, September 15, 2010

‘opening up lands in Brockville for development to encourage new businesses to
come and to support businesses that already exist on Stewart Boulevard.

Mr. Collett proposed another public meeting to allow for debate and time to analyze
the new Official Plan before itis adopted,

Mr. Roger Wing (174 Church Street, Brockville, K6V 3Y2)

Mr. R. Wing stated concems with respect to heritage properties and districts. Mr
Wing asked if there isa list of heritage properties and properties of heritage interest
Mr. Wing referred to Article 7 of the new proposed Official Pian and stated concem
for the property owners and the obigations they may have with this. Mr. Wing
‘advised the City to not be too restrictive with respect to Heritage properties.

Mr. Paul Webb (23 Jessie Street, Brockville K6V 306)

Mr. Webb asked if the Airport has been incorporated in the new Offical Plan. Ms.
Pascoe-Merkley, Director of Planning informed Mr. Webb that the Official Plan is
intended for properties within city limits and that Elizabethtown Kitley, where the
Airport is located, has their own Official Plan.

‘Mr, Jack MacNamee (127 Park Street, Brockville K6V 2G8)

Mr, MacNamee noted concerns with King Street and commented that there is not
‘enough reference made to King Street in the new Official Pian.

Items from Council:

Councilor Baker questioned the bonusing provisions within the City. It was
indicated by Stephen Wilis of MMM Group that the plan sets out certain criteria for
establishing a bonus and itis Council has the abilty to choose to use or not to use
this tool

Councilor Journal thanked everyone for attending the meeting. Councillor Journal
stated that he believes the City does have a lot of lands which cannot currently be
developed on and therefore will be proposing an amendment to the new Official Plan
to include opening up some of the lands on Stewart Boulevard and removing some
of the proposed developable lands from the Official Pian,

Councillor Journal also commented that he is torn as to whether this Council should
wait or push the new Official Plan forward as so much work has been put into it thus
far.

City of Brockville

Council - Meeting Minutes - Wednesday, September 15, 2010
Councilor Earle commented that he is in no rush to adopt the new Official Plan,
Councilor Earle noted that he feels the plan should be flexible and should not be too
restrictive and that although there may be inconsistencies within the plan itis a
document that not everyone will agree to, The recommendations to extend services
land widen the lanes on Highway 29 are supported by Councillor Earle, but
questioned who would pay.

Councillor Noble indicated that he feels the language in the new Official Plan is too
Passive, Councillor Noble commented that he agrees with the need to incorporate
the extension of services on Highway 29 and that affordable housing needs to be
included in the plan. Councilor Noble recommended deterring the adoption of the
new Official Plan until after the election.

Councillor Williams commented that the Floor Space Index matter should be further
investigated and agrees with the extension of municipal services on Highway 29.
Councillor Wiliams noted that its important that the language remain flexible in the
Official Plan and commented that the plan is a living document that can be changed
time passes. Councillor Williams noted that he supports the adoption of the new
Official Plan in principle but some changes need to be incorporated,

Councilor Severson noted that she has no problems with deferring the plan until
after the election but would lke to see it finished as soon as possible.

Councillor Beach commented that there has been insufficient discussion amongst
Council and feels the plan should be deferred to the next Council

Councilor Kalivas noted that he feels Council should wait to hear responses to the
‘submissions received. Councillor Kalivas also commented that he feels Official Plan
js a general document that should remain flexible and that the new Zoning By-Law
will contain the enforcement matters.

Councilor Fullarton noted that a workshop amongst Councillors should be facilitated
to continue working on the new pian,

‘Mayor Henderson noted that the next regular meeting of Council is scheduled for
‘September 28, 2010 at City Hall

|OTION TO RETURN TO COUNC!
‘Moved by: Councillor Wiliams
THAT we revert from Committee of the Whole Council, to Council

CARRIED
7

City of Brockville
Council - Meeting Minutes - Wednesday, September 15, 2010

ADOPTION OF REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE COUNCIL

‘Moved by: Councillor Severson
‘Seconded by: Councillor Beach

THAT the report of the Committee of the Whole Council be adopted and that the
necessary actions or by-laws be enacted.

CARRIED
ADJOURNMENT
Moved by: Councillor Severson

THAT Council adjoum its proceedings until the next regular meeting scheduled for
September 28, 2010.

CARRIED

‘The meeting adjourned at 10:11 p.m.

MAYOR CLERK

To Mayor and Council, City of Brockville

Official Plan Draft: Three issues

1. Schedule
Council has not yet devoted the time on its schedule to actually
discuss the Draft Official Plan. This Plan is far too Important to “rubber
stamp" without thoughtful reading and discussion.

2. Language.
‘The draft OP contains much weak, permissive, or vague language.
"May" for instance, Is meaningless. “Shall” and “shall not” are
meaningful.

Similarly, "balance" is a hazardous word. “Strike a balance between
competing interests” contains no instruction whatever. Balance
depends entirely on where we place the fulcrum. The job of the OP is
to place the fulcrum

3. No response to suggestions
More than a year ago, I, along with others, met with the Director of
Planning and an OP consultant. To date, as far as I know, we have
recelved no response. And we search in vain for evidence in the Draft
that anyone was listen!
For instance, I suggested that our restrictive residential zoning is
running contrary to some goals of the OP. Hierarchical restrictive
zoning interferes with intensification, with the development of mixed
use, and forces high density residential development to our congested
downtown. A Zoning By-law relies upon guidance from the Oficial
Pian.

Respectfully submitted for your thoughtful consideyation, I am

Don Glover

101 Hartley St.
613 345 2793
dandvglover@sympatico.ca

2010 September 10

Tracy Brons

From: John dance (dancejohn@magma ca}
Sent Frday. September 10.20102'53 PM

To: Hain@ripnet com: twatace@magma.ca; Tracy Brons
Subject: Gyeling Comments" Ofical Plan

| would appreciate it if the following comments would be provided to your planners in
advance of the upcoming meeting on the draft Official Plan.

First, it is commendable that considerable reference is made to increased cycling (and
other forms of “active transportation’) within the draft plan.

That said, there is inadequate expression and reflection of the economic impact of
increased cycling in Brockville. Further, | would suggest several changes to Schedule
5, “Active Transportation Network.”

Cycling has the potential of being at least important as “transit” as an altemative form
of transportation, but links and routes must be established so that cycling is not seen
simply as a “good” recreational activity but also as a fundamental “utilitarian’ means of
getting around — indeed, one that is much less costly than transit or other motorized
transportation,

While tourism is stressed in the OP as an important economic driver, there is no
recognition that there will be an increasing number of cyclists who will be biking to and.
in the City, if routes encourage such. Brockville occupies a perfect location for cyclists,
= between Montreal and Toronto and near Ottawa. The problem is that the routes to
and within Brockville are not particularly cyciing-friendly (CR#2 is particularly bad east
of Maitland). | realize that a planner might say this issue is beyond the scope of the
Brockville OP but the reality is that the OP should reflect connectivity and, at a
minimum, this should show or speak of safe cycling linkages to Prescott and Athens so
people can readily cycle between these centres.

In terms of the proposed Active Transportation Network, | would suggest several
critical opportunities are being missed, i.e.,

1. North-South linkage/route: Neither Stewart Bivd/William Street nor Ormond
will be a good N-S route. The former will always be too busy and the latter has
an unpleasant hill and excessive narrowness south of Pearl. | suggest that Park
be the primary N-S route: i's wider, flatter and more towards the centre of
downtown. | further suggest that in terms of making a better linkage to the north
that at the end of Park (near the Y — clearly the City’s athletic hub) the Park
cycling route merge with the ‘Future Brock Trail” portion that is proposed to go
along the not-particularly-busy CPR rail tracks. This would necessitate a level

1


crossing of the tracks but it would provide cyclists with a much better means of
coming from / going to the North haif of the city.

2. Centre Street extension: The proposed extension of Centre (| assume that
what runs N-S at the west of the City) should also be a “potential spine cycling
route"

3. Parkdale: Parkdale is shown as a “Potential Spine Cycling Route” but it remains
horribly unfriendly for bikes. OK, this isn't really an OP issue.

Cheers john dance 613 348-3018

Information from ESET Smart Security, version of virus signature database $441 (20100910)

‘The message was checked by ESET Smart Security.

hupy/wwweset.com

‘September 13, 2010

City of Brockville
1 King Street West
Brockville, Ontario
K6V 3PS

From: Concerned businessmen and landowners of Brockville North (Highway 29)

To: Clerk of the City of Brockville
‘Subject: The proposed Official Plan forthe City of Brockville

‘Thank you for the opportunity of providing input into the subject plan prior to finalization and
approval

For your information, we have formed a delegation of concemed businessmen and land owners
in Brockville north and appreciate the opportunity to submit input at the public meeting on
September 15, 2010.

A. Overview

{In reviewing the plan, we note the focus on a vibrant and thriving downtown and broad-based
economic development for the long term. We also note reference to planning and
infrastructure deployment to ensure that the City can accommodate the anticipated growth
and development over the 20-year planning horizon to 2031 (a period of 20 years). We also
‘note thatthe plan is based on the following:

A. Background information and analysis related to growth management including
ttansportation, housing, community facilites and services, land use, economic
evelopment,’ commercial and industrial activity, urban design, cultural heritage
resources and the natural environment.

B.A vision to attract young families, promote innovation and a knowledge-based economy.

C. A strategic initiative to revitalize the downtown central waterfront area (Downtown
revitalization)

D. To establish Brockville as an economic hub and as a centr for innovation and creativi


infill and intensification and

E. To encourage orderly development, redevelop
services and expansion of urban

discourages the undue extens

boundaries,

F. Throughout the plan, we note continual reference to a policy framework to mange and
‘grow the City over this 20 year period. However, we understand the growth projection to
be less than 2%.

G. We applaud the outline of the plan as noted above, however, there appears to be a
isconnect between the plan and the growth projection of some 2% over a 20-yeer period.

1. Summary and Concerns
In summary of the above, our concerns are related to the following:

‘A. The plan itself, which alludes to the City becoming an economic hub and a Center of
Excellence for innovation and creativity, while planning fora less than 2% growth over
the next 20 years when, we believe, the average growth for many municipalities in
Eastern Ontario is substantially higher.

B, The emphasis on planning and infrastructure deployment to ensure that the City can
accommodate the anticipated growth and development, again, when the planned growth
is less than 2%.

CC. The plan encourages orderly development but discourages the undue extension of
wundaries, wt
{othe overall plan, Itis this area that we respectfully question.

= What is undue extension of municipal services? Does this mean that the City does
‘ot plan to extend services to the City limits in areas where itis seriously needed to
support business and development, replace antiquated septic systems, and be
proactive regarding safety and in protecting the environment?

+ Highway 29 is main artery and the busiest route into the City with several
businesses located within the City limits. Many of these businesses were established
‘based on a promise from the City that services would be extended to their premises
within 10 years. That promise was made over 20 years ago. Many of these
businesses are currently on septic system or holding tanks with a high cost for
services on a monthly basis

Considering that there is substantial growth and residential development happening in
rural areas all around Brockville today, including Leeds and the 1000 Islands, Augusta
‘Township, Elizabethtown Township, etc. It appears that the extension of municipal
services and expansion of our urban boundaries would be a major contributor and provide
‘opportunity for economic growth in the short term,

Page 2

3. Recommendations

‘A. We fully support the need for downtown revitalization and the requirement for high
density residential development in order to achieve this goal

B. We support and request consideration for the extension of municipal services along
Highway 29 to the city limits on Centennial Road to be included in the Official Plan and
implemented at the earliest possible time frame to support existing businesses inthe area
and to encourage development and growth inthis important sector.

CC. We also support and request consideration of widening Highway 29 to four lanes to be
included in the Official Plan and implemented atthe earliest possible time frame inline
ith the above.

4. In support of these requests, we offer the following:

‘A. The Highway 29 area is probably the most promising area of growth for both business and
residential development in the City today. Businessmen and developers are interested in
this area due to the high level of traffic and activity. There is ample commercial and
‘residential land available for business expansion and development.

B. In our opinion, ths is a prime area for economic growth, job creation and increased tax
revenue for the City and it appears to be totally forgoten inthe Official Plan.

CC. Old septic systems and wells have been an area of concem for many years in tis area and
itis just « matter of time before it becomes a major issue and cost for the City. It is
probably a ticking time bomb that should be addressed in the interest of safety, the
‘environment and new development.

In this regard, we understand thatthe City, in liaison with the Township of Elizabethtown
conducted a study approximately eight to ten years ago, and prepared plans including
pricing to extend services on Highway 29 to the City limits on Centennial Road and to
Vietoria Road, along Victoria Road and back to Highway 29,

the case, we wonder why the City did not apply for infrastructure funding from
the Federal Government in 2009 to support this important need and create jobs,

Perhaps itis not too late and if planning only needs updating then infrastructure funding
‘may still be available for this purpose,

D. The need for widening Highway 29, atleast tothe City limits cannot be overstated. ‘This
is the busiest artery into our City and becoming more congested on a yearly basis.
Widening of this highway would create an orderly flow of traffic into the City, reduce
accidents, improve access to existing businesses and encourage further expansion and
economic development in the area.

Pages

5. Conclusion

‘We do not support and are concemed about a plan that charts a direction for less than a 2%
growth for a city and area with so much potential over the next 20 years and therefore
recommends that the plan be delayed for review after the October municipal election

We believe thatthe City may be missing a tremendous opportunity to develop the north end
bby not being proactive in bringing services and road widening tothe area in the interest ofthe
environment, safety, and future economic development. We respectfully request your serious
consideration of this mater.

It has been 20 years since the last Official Plan was adopted. Another few months for further
review of this Plan by fresh minds should not be a concer and may prove to be substantially
‘beneficial for our Cty in the future.

Sincerely

‘The concerned businessmen and landowners of Brockville North and Highway 29 including but
not limited to:

Clift White, landowner

‘Stan Hall, Highway Pentecostal Church,
Jack Henderson, The Flower Shop
Sherri Hudson, landowner

Paul Veenstra, Coombe Custom Homes
Amold Dixon, Kia of Brockville

Mike Veenstra, SV Homes

AI Phillips, Garden World

Mike MeParlan, MeParlan Auto Sales

Keith Bean, Brockville Motors

Pages

Tracy Brons

Robert A, Millar [ram@milarTECH ca]
Monday, August 30,2010 12:03 PM
Tracy Brons

Comments e. Draft OP

2010-08-30

S. Seale, Clerk
City of Brockville
1 King Street West
Brockville, Ontario K6V 7S

Re: _Stautory Pubic Meeting respecting the New Official Plan forthe City of Brockville
‘Comments re. lack of Transportation Plan components in Draft OP

In reference to your e-mail of Aug. 26 re the above meeting I would hereby like to submit comments concerning
the Draft Official Plan, and speak as a “delegation” atthe Public Meeting on Sept. 15.

| have been following this planning process since it's inception, and have made written comments to the
consultants and City Planning staff on several occasions.

ln my opinion, as a retired Transportation Engineer, the Draft OP as presented throughout the process, does not
include an adequate high evel Transportation Plan component. Without this necessary part ofa complete plan,
the City has no way of knowing i the Land Use Plan proposed is workable.

Just asthe Plan included an analysis ofthe sewer and water infrastructure, inorder to determine if those
facilities are adequate to accommodate future development, o oo, the Plan must include enough information
about expected transportation demand forthe City to judge if the existing network wil function or ifthe
transportation network will require alterations to make the use ofthe lands practical, or even if thee are other
transportation strategies that may be needed. The section on an expanded Cyele path and cursory comments
on the existing one-way stret system inthe downtown area, are not sufficient for good planning

{understand that Council has decided to do a full Transportation Plan update as a separate process. But that is
“locking the barn door after the horse has bolted’. Just as an architect does not design a building layout and
leave consideration of elevators and stairs toa later stage, so to0 an OP has to include the transportation
‘component. You need to know now how Transportation and Land Use strategies will interact, especially with a
20 year horizon.

From my experiences (although procedures may have changed since Tve retired) the Ministry of Municipal
Alfairs and/or the OMB would be anxious to see answers to these types of questions before approving any new
Official Plan. Even if they don’t it just makes good planning sense to have answers before commiting the
City to this Official Land Use Plan.

Yours truly

Robert A. Millar

Citizens Brockville
Submission to the City of Brockville
Official Plan
STATUTORY PUBLIC MEETING
September 15, 2010

®
ae

Brockville

Page 1 of 18

Executive Summary

Citizens Brockville asks that Council postpone final approval of the Official Plan
until Council has time to study and debate the final version that was presented to
Council on August 24, 2010.

Our request to postpone is based on the following observations and information.

‘On July27, Council received submissions, including another slide show by the consultant. At that
meeting, Councl decided to defer debate until a special meeting In August.

‘No special meeting was held. At the regular Couneil Meeting, on August 28, another version of the
Pian was presented, including changes which, is said, were acceptable to the Ministry Of Municipal
Affairs and Housing. Council did discuss whether they should debate the issues at that time but,
‘again, after being told by the Director of Planning that this could be done at the statutory meeting,
there was no debate. Individual councillors said they plan to propose changes to the massive
document when it comes back fora final vote at the couneil table.

Councillor Beach pointed out; Council has had litte opportunity, through the whole process, to debate
the substance of what has become a 265 page document with adaltional schedules and documents.

We believe such an approach is illogical, since the public meeting will not be
about the plan that includes those councillors’ changes

Page 2 of 18

Page 1-5 of the proposed Official Plan states the following:

1.2 PURPOSE OF THE OFFICIAL PLAN
‘according to the Planning Act, an Official Plan “shall contain goats,

‘objectives and policies established primarily to manage and direct

physical change and the effects on the social, economic and natural environment of the
‘municipality’ (Section 16(3)).

We believe that this current version fails this basic precept. There is not much in
the way of articulated defined policy on goals and policy. There are too many “we
may” but not enough “we shall”.

‘We urge Council to amend the plan so that it is less likely to be appealed. We
suggest that the cost to the City of getting it right is far less than the cost of
responding to an appeal.

Page 1-7 of the proposed Official Plan states the following:
11.3 BASIS FOR THE OFFICIAL PLAN,

[As part of the Official Plan process three Strategy documents were prepared,
Including a Land Use and Growth Management Strategy, a Downtown and

Waterfront Master Plan and Urban Design Strategy, and an Economic

Development stratery. The recommendations from these Strategies, which

hhave assisted in formulating policies ofthe Offical Plan, were developed using

the values, vision and objectives of the Community Strategic Plan, Including key

strategic initlatives to revitalize the Downtown Central Waterfront area,

establish a downtown revitalization and waterfront development plan, establish

Brockville as an economic hub and as a centre for innovation and creativity, and

Incorporate sustainability into all aspects of City administration. The Strategy

documents and Official Plan outline key priorities, goals and objectives that

facilitate Brockvile's growth and development, provide revitalization, urban

‘design and growth principles for the Downtown and Waterfront, promote

sustainability and offer ways to improve and enhance the City’s economic

development functions. These priorities are specifically linked to the strategies of the
Community Strategie Plan.

‘The three Strategy documents referred to “Land Use and Growth Management
Strategy, “Downtown and Waterfront Master Plan and Urban Design Strategy”
and “Economic Development Strategy” that have been used to assist in
formulating policy with in the Official Plan are lacking in specific and detailed
goals and objectives and therefore, have translated into an Official Plan that
reflects the same lack of vision and policy articulation.

Page 3 of 18

We wish to focus on two areas of prime concern with this current version of the
Official Plan.

Firstly, there is no true vision as to what the City thinks our waterfront should be
in the next five, ten or twenty years. Will it look like Kingston? The Plan talks
about our “heritage”. We see the view of Brockville from the water and,
Waterfront as part of this heritage. Talk of redesigning the skyline, without
principles to guide this, is not helpful.

Page 1-9 of the proposed Official Plan states the following:

‘This Plan promotes the maintenance, improvement and conservation of the
cultura heritage resources of the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area
and the City’s main streets as the predominant soca, cultural and
‘community focuses ofthe City. This Plan further promotes these areas as
unique mixed commercial, office, residential areas that act as commercial,
cultural, recreational and entertainment focal points in the City.

We do not believe that the Plan promotes the conservation of the Central
Waterfront Area. There is no detailed policy in the Plan that is outlined how the
waterfront area will be protected. Building heights how does the “angular plain”
in practical terms work. Does it start from the waterfront and go north? Do we
really from a practical point of view under the impact of this policy?

For example the waterfront has been lumped in with the business core on King
Street. All land south of Water Street should be a separate designated land use
area so that more defined and better detailed polices can be articulated to
protect the water front.

Our green space is our legacy to the next generation and beyond. Let us not build
wall between the river and the city for just the affluent!

Page 4 of 18

Affordable Housing

Affordable Housing is a major concern for those who have not been afforded the
opportunity to be able to enjoy decent accommodation.

As of the last 2006 census, 32% of Brockville households earned under $30,000
and 34% of lower middle income households earned between $30,000 to
$60,000.

According to economists, Brockville’s latest known average percentage of
household income devoted to housing ranges between 36% and 44% which
exceeds the provincial threshold of 30%.

It is important that the City pays attention to Section 1.4.3 of the Provincial Policy
Statement which states that planning authorities shall provide for an appropriate
range of housing types and densities to meet projected requirements of current
and future residents of the regional market area by sub-sections

a) establishing and implementing minimum targets for the provision of
housing which is affordable to low and moderate income
households...and,

e) establishing development standards for residential intensification,
redevelopment and new residential development which minimize the cost
of housing and facilitate compact form, while maintaining appropriate
levels of public health and safety.

Neither a) or e) sub-sections have been satisfactorily addressed in the various
drafts of the Official Plan.

Page Sof 18

Page 3-9 of the proposed Official Plan states the following:

3.2.4.2 Neighbourhood Development Areas

‘The provision fora range of innovative and affordable housing types,
zoning standards and subdivision designs shall be encourages.

3. The City’s development standards may be reviewed on the basis of
‘neighbourhood development proposals providing compact design and
improved affordability.

The language “shall be encouraged” is weak at best. This part of the policy
statement as a minimum should read “will be encouraged”.

The City should stake a stronger leadership role with its partners dealing with the
issue of affordable housing. Nowhere in the current version of the Plan is co-

operative housing identified and discussed. This frankly is unacceptable and the
Citizens of Brockville deserve better.

Respectfully submitted,
James Coolen,
on behalf of Official Plan Working Group

Citizens Brockville

Page 6 of 18

Submission
A Commentary
Brockville's Final Draft Official Plan of August 2010
Regarding its Waterfront
by Citizens Brockville

Background and Scope

“This commentary reflects some questions and concerns ofa newly incorporated citizens group, Cizens
Brockvile (CB), to the c's draft Offical Plan (OP). It focuses on the band of waterfront lands and
‘waterlts mostiy south of Water St. Many members care deeply about the waterfront’ future use and
appearance, for thelr own enjoyment and for that of future generations.

(Our aim isto move waterfront plans Into the 21rst century wth new citizen prortes and cty processes,
‘The draft OP already has many good polices that CB tikes, particularly those around hertage and
sustainability. CBis neither for nor against the draft OP as @ whole. Indeed, CB recognizes the need fora
new Plan to replace the 1987 Pian, as per the Planning Act. Below are some broad waterfront-elated
‘comments however, intended to be constructive to the discussion, and to minimize amendments ater
adoption.

Concerns

1) Process: Public input is not incorporated enough into the plan

‘The public consuitation process is disconnected from the outcome. Yes, the public participated in several
workshops, and their input was captured in the Foundation Report in May 2009. That input clearly
desires more parkland rather than building mass in the central waterfront, especially south of Water St.

Page 7 of 18

However, the Downtown and Waterfront Master lan and Urban Design Strategy (DWMPUDS) instead
‘dented much tnd for continuing to develop large buildings south of Water St. The draft OP designates
Waterfront Development areas, blocking much river view from Water St. The public's desire for vews and
Vistas was more in reference tothe river, creeks and existing skyline than in to bulldings, CB believes that
business and tax interests are trumping resident interest in the Waterfront Development areas. The
UI said these areas should be protected from development and treated diferenty than the downtown,

‘The draft OP Schedule 2s showing an increase in building height (and therefore market value) in five
locations. It increases the height from three stories to eight or more stories. This seems premature,
‘especialy forthe last Smart Foundry building (buit 1903), which could be reused as residential or med
use. Three or four stories seem more appropriate along Water St.

‘The consultant's assertion on July 27, 2010 that “dear consensus" has been achieved isnot explained or
Justified.

Therefore, the OP should incorporate the publ's input to minimize building mass south of Water Stn
‘favour of more public parkland. The Downtown should be separate from the Central Waterfront for
‘planning purposes. As wel, the OP should better connect the water's edge, tals, and strets for pubic
‘enjoyment, again in response to clear public input

2) Vision: Lack of creative and Integrated waterfront design

‘The design and use ofthe waterfront is unclear in the daft OP. The design seems to be driven by ad-hoc
developer applications, rather than by an integrated vision and plan that most ctizens will be happy with.
“The Smart Foundry ste is a current example where an integrated vision and plan would set the tage for
a smooth project.

“That vision forthe waterfront starts with a vison forthe cy. The vison forthe cy, in the Svatege Plan
(Feb. 2009) highights exceptional amenities. For Brockville this means an exceptional waterront. The
‘main purpose forthe waterfront has not been well articulated yet. Is & primarily for residents or tourists?
“The draft OP combines the downtown with the central waterfront. It also suggests downtown retain its
hertage character. Therefore, by extension, many fel south of Water St. should have a distinctive
(natura) hertage.

We feel that the central waterfront s exceptionally valuable to public enjoyment and thus deserves
separate more protective planning polices from those forthe downtown.

‘The OP process has produced a good concept fr the block bounded by a realigned Water St, Broad St,
‘and Market St. West. However, where isthe integrated concept for the whole waterfront? The DWMPUDS
bulls on a 1991 Waterfront Plan, a plan that was never endorsed by Council. Surely 30 modeling

Pape 8 of 18

software is now within reach for brainstorming concepts. Visioning beyond 20 years to 100 years out is
‘needed, Into @ word that’s both more local and global. The grattude we feel for Willam Buels von for
the New England Square two centuries ago should be just as uniquely “paid forward” to residents in
future centuries,

“There was a year-long effort for a Tunnel Bay Harbour Redesign, and there i reference in the draft OP
(35.3.1 #34) to implementing a St. Lawrence Park Master Plan. Couldn't izens, as

stakeholders, contribute more directly to these efforts? Do ctizens understand the Implications of this
plan for St. Lawrence Park?

‘Therefore, the lly should intiate a beter and creative Waterfront ian to cover the whole 4km
waterfront. This pln would design inthe best of our cultural hertage and accommodate future needs.
The public should be consulted on what the best (eg. steeples, cly hal, tunnel, New Enolane Square,
River, Islands), and sight lines would be designed accordingly. A compeling and inspiring ison should
Integrate a Waterfront Plan wit a Culture Pan.

'3) Trends: Not learning from other waterfront cities,

Canadian cities, are generally deaing their watrtronts of industry in favour of public parkland.
Reads and buildings get set well back from the wate’s edge. Many of them are thriving, despite
hhavng given up tax assessment onthe shoreline. They atact investment in part because of
‘great design that works with the natural heritage. A beautfl public realm with green waterfront
can be green economicaly too.

Many Canadian cles have a commitment toa green waterfront. Ontario examples incude Bari,
Belevile, Burington, and North Bay. In B.C. there's Kelowna, and in New Brunswick, Saint John. (see
Note 1.)

Examples of cties where buildings interrupt much ofthe water's edge include Kingston Ont, and Coburg
(Ont. OF the two groups of cities, Chizens Brockville OPWG prefers the designs and poles ofthe former.

‘The later designs may be regrette for generations (to be fir, these cities have now put mare protective
policies in place). OF further relevance, the Provincial Policy Statement discourages development on the

Shoreline of the St. Lawrence River. (See Note 2.)

Page 9 of 18

‘Therefore, the background material could have picked out the "best of others for Brockville o consider.
‘Ata minimum, the OP should be more defintve in bulding setbocks (e.g. 30m), easements and land
‘acquisition along the water's edge, as beft a cy in 8 UNESCO Biosphere. It should use more force!
wording, 2s per the example ates in NOTE 1 below.

‘These are at least three concerns that the OP Technical Steering Committee and Council should address
prior to adoption ofthe Plan. Let's minimize future amendments and smooth the subsequent Zoning By-
law process.

Barrie Ont.

Official Plan - 4,6.2,5 Waterfront (updated 2009)

"(0) The Oty shel promote the development of the waterfront lands along
‘Rempentelt Bay and Lite Lake as 2 continuous major puble open

space system. No Oty owned land wil be disposed of n these areas

‘and Council will endeavour to acqure pevately owned lands."

Bellevile Ont.

Waterfront Development Plan (2005)
“The 2005 Waterfront Development Pan shows a vision for more continuous waterfront tral.

Page 10 of 18

Burlington Ont.
Burlington Official Pian (updated 2010)

‘Burtington has 700,000 acres of watertront parkand, nduding 12 parks.
Officat Pan, Part 1, pg 7

"Preservation of natural features
“Another change tothe Cy isthe increased emphasis placed on the protection,
‘reservation and conservation of significant natural resource features and
‘providing accessibility to pubic open space along the waterront. The Plan's
"Greenlands" designation, much of which s found primarly on privately owned
lands, recognizes the importance ofthe long-term preservation of significant
‘natural resource features."

Kelowna B.C.
‘Waterfront Parks Plan

Kelowna has redeveloped ts old industrial areas into beautiful themed precincts with much public
parkland and outdoor art.

"North Bay, Ont.
Official Plan (updated 2003)

'2.2.11.3 In order to protect public enjoyment ofthe waterfront, the Cty shall
‘ensure that continuous pedestrian access be maintained along the lake
‘rontage, and that vistas towards the waterfront are achleved from existing
‘residential areas and the central business cstrict through the reservation of
‘open corridors 15 to 23 metres wide in alignment with existing streets
(where these can be incorporated in redevelopment projects without
Inhibiting the desired redevelopmentjand by lining the height of any

‘new residential biking to four (4) stories in height.

22.11.4 Public parks and open spaces shal be used for passive and active
‘recreational purposes. Space shall be provided along the wateftont that
‘may be used as a public beach area A landscaped pedestrian/biycle path
shall extend along the woterfront. Areas designated for parks and open
spaces shall be kept fee of al buldings and structures, except those
necessary forthe use of the area."

Page 11 0f 18

Saint John NB.
‘Saint John Inner Harbour Land Use Pian (2003), pg 1-2.
(One of four Imperatives: Aniculte « Compelling Vision

“The Inner Harbour Land Use Plan and Implementation

rong and clear vision for the fate of the Inner

Strategy arte

Harbour that's compelling and inspiring Imagining possibilities that
«frst though may seem inconceivable bul wil be possible overtime

with continued effort and diigence”

[Nagara Escarpment Commission, Ont.

“Though not waterfront, the Commission has @ GIS-based process that looks at sightline interuptions of
the Escarpment.

From a friend:
“The Commission determined that special views ofthe escarpment should be accessible toa
‘and that new developments wouldn't be allowed that diminished those views. For example, some

ater towers and cel towers were denied. A developer had to re-plan a subdivision so that root
‘helghts would not block people in older developments behind the new one."

Page 12 of 18

Provincial Policy Statement, Section 3.4

3.1.1 Development shall generally be directed to areas outside of: 2) hazardous lands adjacent tothe
“shorelines of the Great Lakes - St. Lawrence River System and large inland lakes which are
Impacted by Nooding hazards, eresion hazards and/or dynamic beach hazards;

Page 13 of 18

3.5.1.2. Affordable Housing

This section states that “the provision of housing that is affordable and accessible
to low and moderate income households will be a priority. But it states that a
housing strategy may be completed by the city to establish an appropriate target
for the provision of housing to be affordable to low and moderate-income
households. Brockville’s affordable housing needs cannot be met through
strategies that are not defined so that the appropriate action can be taken.

‘Affordable Housing notes that the policy of the City shall,

1) _ ensure that 30% of the existing housing stock and that housing to
be developed is affordable as defined in this Plan and that a supply
is maintained; and

2) That the City shall encourage the provision of affordable housing
through eight (8) strategies, items i, -vi.

Unfortunately, Strategies Lv. are not spelled out. They only imply that there are interim targets within
the 20-year planning period. (A system of S:year reports should be implemented to ensure thatthe

targets are being met and, if they are not, to take further necessary measures)

These strategies do not guarantee the development of a Municipal Housing
Strategy, which would identify and plan annual housing targets, mixes of housing
types, and affordability thresholds. As well, the Official Plan does not guarantee
the adoption of a Municipal Housing Facilities By-Law which would give Council
the ability to grant specific development charge relief and other incentives to
developers in exchange for affordable rental housing.

Housing Affordability Targets

Housing affordability targets are established to ensure that low to medium income house-holds in the
City of Brockville have an opportunity to own or rent a home. Presently, there are no housing
affordability targets outlined in our Official Plan

Page 14 of 18

Based on the work undertaken by Watson & Associates submission (OP Brockville Growth Analysis,
Table 5.8), the average costs for a new home in 2007 was approximately $258,700 ($24,600 annual
housing costs), whereas the cost for a resale home was $208,965 ($20,200 annual housing costs). This
represents approximately 44% and 38% of the average household income in Brockile respectively. itis
clear that Brockville's average housing costs exceeds the provincial threshold of 30%.

‘According to the Provincial Policy Statement of 2005, Affordable means:
a) in the case of ownership housing, the least expensive of:

1. housing for which the purchase price results in annual
accommodation costs which do not exceed 30% of gross annual
household income for low and moderate income households; or

2. housing for which the purchase price is at least 10 percent below
the average purchase price of a resale unit in the regional market
oreo;

b) inthe case of rental housing, the least expensive of:

1. a unit for which the rent does not exceed 30% of gross annual
household income for low and moderate income households; or

2. a unit for which the rent is at or below the average market rent of
a unit in the regional market area.

It is important that the City pays attention to Section 1.4.3 of the Provincial
Policy Statement: “Planning authorities shall provide for an appropriate range of
housing types and densities to meet projected requirements of current and future
residents of the regional market area by: sub-section a) establishing_and
implementing minimum targets for the provision of housing which is affordable to
low and moderate income households...”

Page 15 of 18,

It is clear that the obligation of the City is to both establish minimum targets and
to set out measures to implement the attainment of those targets. Sub-section e)
imposes a further obligation: establishing development standards for residential
intensification, redevelopment and new residential development which minimize
the cost of housing and facilitate compact form, while maintaining appropriate
levels of public health and safety.” Neither sub-section a) or e) has been
satisfactorily handled in the various drafts of the Official Plan.

AAs of the last 2006 census, 32% of Brockville households earned under $30,000;
34% of lower middle-income households earned between $30-60,000; 19% of
upper middle-income households earned between $60-90,000, and 16% of
Brockville households earned over $90,000. In the 2009 provincial budget, both
federal and provincial governments invested 1.2 billion dollars for housing. Some
of this capital could assist Brockville in creating, converting to, or repairing
affordable housing units.

4.2.3 Land Use & Build Form Policies, Section 9, ii states that:
Development proposals shall contribute to increasing the number of affordable

housing units within the City, in accordance with Section 3.5.1.2, but does not
specify an established percentage.

Under the United Counties of Leeds and Grenville, the Canada-Ontario Affordable
Housing Program assists eligible individuals and families with a down payment
forgivable loan in the purchase of a modest sized home, priced at $190,000 or
less. As units can be detached, semi-detached, condominiums, stacked homes,
row houses, or apartments, the City could be involved in creating non-profit
housing in conjunction with the Counties. Standards for new low-income
residential development, which minimize building costs, are needed, The key to
‘good housing is choice: enough choice should be available for affordable housing.

Further work on housing affordability in the City should be undertaken to identify
where there are housing needs and how to address those needs in the future.

Page 16 of 18

D.? Cut

A Commentary
Brockville's Final Draft Official Plan of July 2010
Regarding its Waterfront

by Citizens Brockville

Background and Scope

‘This commentary reflects some questions and concems ofa newy incorporated ctzens group, Citizens
Broce (CB), tothe city's draft Oficial lan (OP). k focuses on the band of waterfront lands and
wateriots mostly south of Water St._ Many members care deeply about the waterront's futur use and
appearance, for their own enjoyment and for that of future generations.

Our aim isto move waterfront plans into the 21rst century with new etzen priorities and city processes
‘The draft OP already has many good polices that CB kes, particularly thase around heritage and
sustainabiity.CBis neither for nor against the draft OP as a whole. Indeed, CB recognizes the need fora
‘new Plan to replace the 1987 Plan, as per the Planning Act. Below are some broad waterfont-elated
comments however, intended to be constructive to the discussion, and to minimize amendments after
adoption

Concerns
1) Process: Public input is not incorporated enough into the plan

The public consutation process is dsconnected from the outcome. Yes, the public participated in
‘several workshops, and their input was captured in the Foundation Report in May 2008, That input
clearly desies more parkland rather than building mass in the central waterfront, especialy south of
Water st.

However, the Downtown and Waterfront Master Plan and Urban Design Strategy (OWMPUDS) instead
ientiied much tnd fo continuing to develop larg buldings south of Water St. The draft OP
‘designates Waterfront Development area, blocking much rer view from Water St. The public's desire
{for views and vistas was more in reference to the river, creeks and existing skyline than in to buldings.
CB believes that business and tax interests are trumping resident interests in the Waterfront
Development area. The public said these areas should be protected from development and treated
differently than the downtown area

The draft OP Schedule 2s showing an increase in bullding height (and therefore market value) in five
locations tincreases the height from three stores to eight or more stories, Ths seems premature,
especialy forthe lat Smart Foundry building (ult 1908), which could be reused as residential or mixed
use. Three or four stories seem more appropriate along Water St

‘The consutant's assertion on July 27, 2010 that "lear consensus has been achieved isnot explained or
justified,

Therefor, the OP should incorporate the public's input to minimite building mass south of Water St. in
{favour of more publc parkland. The Downtown shouldbe separate from the Centro! Waterfront for
plonning purposes. As wel, the OP should better connect the water edge, trols, and streets for public
enjoyment, again i response to clear public input.

2) Vision: Lack of creative and integrated watertront design

‘The design and use ofthe waterfront is unclear inthe draft OP. The design seems tobe driven by ad-hoc
developer applications, rather than by an integrated vision and plan that most cizens willbe happy
with, The Smart Foundry sites a current example where an integrated vision and plan would set the
stage fora smooth project.

‘That vision forthe waterfront starts with a vision for the city. The sion fr the city inthe Strategic Pan
(Feb, 2009) highlights exceptional amenities. For Brockville tis means an exceptional waterfront. The
‘main purpose for the waterfront has not been well articulated yet. Ist primarily for residents or
‘tourists? The draft OP combines the downtown with the central waterfront. lt also suggests downtown
‘retain its hectage character. Therefore, by extension, many feel south of Water St. should have 3
istinctive (natural) hertage.

We fee thatthe central waterfront is exceptionally valuable to publc enjoyment and thus deserves
‘separate more protective planning polices from those for the downtown.

‘The OP process has produced a good concept forthe block bounded by a realigned Water St, Broad St,
‘and Market St. West, However, where I the integrated concept forthe whole waterfront? The
‘OWMPUDS builds on a 1991 Waterfront Plan, a plan that was never endorsed by Council. Surely 30
‘modeling software is now within reach for brainstorming concepts. Visioning beyond 20 years to 100
Years out is needed, nto a world that's both more local and global The gratitude we feel for Willan
Buel’ vision fr the New England Square two centuries ago should be jst as uniquely "paid forward” to
‘residents in future centuries.

‘There was a yearlong effort fora Tunnel Bay Harbour Redesign, and there Is reference Inthe drat OP
(2.5.3.1134) to implementing a St lawrence Park Master Plan, Couldnt czens, a stakeholders,
contribute more directly to these efforts? Do citizens understand the implications of this plan for St.
Lawrence Park?

‘Therefore, the city should itiote a better and creative Waterfront Plan to cover the whole 4k
waterfront. This plon would design in the best of our cutural heritage and accommodate future needs.
The public shouldbe consulted on what the best se. steeples, city hal, tunnel, New Englond Square,
‘iver, Island), and sight ines would be designed accordingly. A compeling and inspiring vision should
‘ntegrote a Waterfront Plan with o Culture Plan.

3) Trends: Not learning from other waterfront elles

Canadian cities, are generally clearing thelr watertronts of industry in favour of public parkland. Roads
‘and buildings get set wellback from the water's edge. Many of them are thriving, despite having given
‘up tax assessment onthe shoreline. They atract investment in part because of great design that works
With the natura heritage. A beautiful public realm with green waterfront canbe green economically to,
‘Many Canadian cities have a commitment toa green waterfront. Ontario examples include Bari,
Belleville, Burlington, and North Bay In 8.C. there's Kelowna, andin New Brunswick, Saint John (see
Note 1)

Examples of cies where buildings interrupt much ofthe waters edge include Kingston Ont, and Coburg
Ont. OF the two groups ofctes, Citizens Brockvte OPWG prefers the designs and policies ofthe former.
‘The latter designs may be regretted for generations (to be fr, these cities have now put more
protective policies in place). Of further relevance the Provincial Policy Statement dicourages
‘evelopment on the shoreline of the St. Lawrence River. (See Note 2)

Therefore, the background material could hove picked out the "best of” others for Brockville to consider.
‘Ata minimum, the OP should be more definitive in building setbacks (eg. 30m), easements, and ond

‘acquisition along the water's edge, os befits a city in @ UNESCO Biosphere. It should use more forceful
wording, 0s per the example cites in NOTE 1 below.

‘These are atleast three concerns thatthe OP Technical Steering Committee and Council should address
rior to adoption ofthe Pan. Let's minimize future amendments and smooth the subsequent Zoning By-
law process

Respectuly submited,

Official Plan Working Group
Ctzens Brockvile

NOTES
NoTes

Barre Ont.
In Plan 46.2.5 Water 2008)

"(0) The ity shal promote the development ofthe waterfront lands along

Kempenfet Bay ond Lite Lake asa cantinuous major public open

space system. No ity owned land wil be disposed of in these areas

‘and Councl will endeavour to acquire privately owned lands”

Bellevite Ont.

Materfront Development Plan (2005)
‘The 2005 Waterfront Development Plan shows 2 vision for more continuous waterfront als.

Buttington Ont.
Sustington Oficial Pan (updated 2010)

Burington has 70,000 acres of waterfront parkland, including 12 parks.
Official Plan, Pat p87

“Preservation of notura features

“Another change tothe Cy the increased emphasls placed onthe protection,
preservation ond conservation of significant naturl resource features ond
providing accessibility to public open space olong the waterfront. The Plo’s
"Greenlonds" designation. much of whichis found primarily on privately owned
ands, recognizes the impertance ofthe long-term preservation of signifiant
naturel esource features.”

Kelowna 8.
Waterfront Park

Kelowna has redeveloped its ol industrial areas into beautiful themed precincts wth much public
parkland and outdoor art.


North Bay, Ont.
Offical Plan updated 2003)

2.11.3 order to protect public enjoyment ofthe waterfront, the iy shall
‘ensure thot continuous pedestrian access be molntoined along the loke
{frontage, and that vstos towards the waterfront ore achieve from exsting
‘residential oreos andthe central business dstct through the reservation of
‘open corridors 15 to 23 metres wide in aignment with existing streets
(where these con be incorporated in redevelopment projects without
Inhibiting the desired redevelopmentland by limiting the height of any
‘new residential building to four (4 stories in height.
2.2.11.4 Public porks and open spaces shall be used for passive ond active
‘recreational purposes Space shal be provided along the waterfront that
‘may be used as public beach area A landscaped pedestron/biccle path
shall extend along the waterfront. Areas designated for porks and open
spaces shal be kept free ofl buldings ond structures, except those
‘necessary forthe use of the area.”

Saint ohn M8,
‘Saint Jn inner Harbour Land Use Plan (2003), 9 1-2.

‘One of four Imperatives: Arieulate a Compelling Vision
“The Inner Harbour Land Use Plan and Implementation

Strategy articulates srg. and clear vison forthe ature of the Inner
‘Harbour that is compelling and tnspring. imagining possiblities that
a first ronal may seem inconceivable. but wil be pexsile overtime
with continsed effort and dMgence”

Niagara Escarpment Commision, Ont.
‘Though not waterfront, the Commission has a GiS-based process that looks at sightline interruptions of
the Escarpment.

Froma friend:

“The Commision determined that special views of the escarpment should be accessible to al, and thot
‘new developments woukin’t be allowed that diminished those views. For exomple, some water towers
‘nd cel towers were dened. A developer had to re-plan a subdivision, so that roof heights woud not
‘block people in older developments behind the new one."

note

i

43.1.1 Development shall generally be directed to areas outside of: 0) hazerdous lands adjacent tothe shorelines
ofthe Great Lakes St Lawrence River System and lrgeinlond les which are impacted by flooding
‘hazards, erosion hazards and/or dynamic beach hazards;

35.1.2. Affordable Housing

This section states that “the provision of housing that i affordable and accessible to low
‘and moderate income households will be a priority. Unfortunately it states that a housing
strategy may be completed by the city to establish an appropriate target for the provision
‘of housing o be affordable to low and moderate income households. Brockvlle's
affordable housing needs cannot be met through strategies which are not defined so that
the appropriate action ean be taken,

Affordable Housing notes that the policy ofthe City shal,
Bp) ‘ensure that 30% of the existing housing stock and that housing to be
developed is affordable as defined inthis Plan and that a supply is
‘maintained; and
2 that the City shall encourage the provision of afordable housing
through eight (8) strategies, items ivi.

Unforunately, these strategies i-vi are not spelled out. They only imply that there are
interim targets within the 20 year planning period. (A system of 5-year reports to ensure
that the targets are being met and, if they are not, to take further necessary measures,
should be implemented)

‘These strategies do not guarantee the development of a Municipal Housing Strategy
which would identify and plan annual housing targets, mixes of housing types, and
affordability thresholds. As wel, the Official Plan does not guarantee the adoption of a
Municipal Housing Facilities By-Law which would give Council the sbilty to grant
specific development charge relief and other incentives to developers in exchange for
Affordable rental housing, .

Housing Affordability Targets

‘Housing affordability targets are established to ensure that low to medium income house-
holds in the City of Brockville have an opportunity to own or ent a home. Presently,
there are no housing affordability targets outined in our Official Plan,

Based on the work undertaken by Watson & Associates, the average costs for a new
‘home in 2007 was approximately $259,700 ($24,600 annual housing costs), whereas the
coast fora resale home was $208,965 ($20,200 annual housing costs). This represents
approximately 44% and 38% ofthe average household income in Brockville respectively
tis clear that Brockville's average housing costs exceeds the provincial threshold of
30%,

‘According to the Provincial Policy Statement of 2005, Affordable means

4) inthe case of ownership housing, the least expensive of:

1. housing for which the purchase price results in annual accommodation
costs which do not exceed 30% of gross annual household income for
low and moderate income households; or

2. housing for which the purchase price is atleast 10 percent below the
average purchase price of. resale unit in the regional market area;

») jin the case of rental housing, the least expensive of:

|. a unit for which the ent does not exceed 30% of gross annual
‘household income for low and moderate income households; or

2, unit for which the rent is at or below the average market rent of ©
unit in the regional market area

As of the last 2006 census, 32% of Brockville households eamed under $30,000;
34% of lower middle income households eamed between $30-60,000; 19% of upper
‘middle income households earned between $60-90,000, and 16% of Brockville
hhouscholds eamed over $90,000. (Attached are (SE) Key Findings of Watson &
Associates Economists Ltd. Based on 2006 Census Profile as it Relates to Housing
Prices and Affordability in Brockville and Comparatives in Ontario)

In the 2009 provincial budget, both federal and provincial governments invested $1.2
billion for housing. Some ofthis capital could assist Brockville in creating and repairing

affordable housing unit.
42.3 Land Use & Built Form Policies, Section 9, i states tha

Development proposals shall contribute to increasing the number of affordable housing
‘units within the City, in accordance with Section 3.5.1.2, but does not specify an
established percentage.

Under the United Counties of Leeds and Grenville, the Canada-Ontario Affordable
Housing Program assists eligible individuals and families with a down payment
forgivable loan in the purchase of a modest sized hone, priced at $190,00 or less.

‘As units can be detached, semi-detached, condominiums, stacked homes, row houses, or
apartments, the City could be involved in creating non-profit housing in conjunction with
the Counties. Standards for new low income residential development which minimize
building costs are needed,

Further work on housing affordability in the ity should be undertaken to identify where
there are housing needs and how to address those needs inthe future

‘Attachments:
'* Table 433 - City of Brockville Housing Tenure
‘+ Population Growth of Brockville and the Province of Ontario (1981-2006)

Table 4.4a - City of Brockville Average Sale Price for Single Family Dwellings
in Eastern Ontario & Selected Central & Southwesteen Municipalities Outside
GTA

‘Table 4.4b - City of Brockville Avg. Annual Growth Rate (Sale Price) for Single
Family Dwellings.

‘Table $8 - City of Brockville (Number of Households in Income Brackets
based on Census Average Household Income, 1996-2006.

‘Table $-9 - City of Brockville Housing Affordability Charts


From: Colin J. Witams {ejw@nct ca)
Sent September 10,2010 1112 AM
To: Sandra Seale

Subject: ‘Official Plan Statutory Meeting
Dear Clerk,

This is to submit comments on the Official Plan which Council is asked to consider.
| would be grateful if you could notify me of the adoption of the Plan.

Colin J. Wiliams.

‘To: The Mayor and other Members of Council
With the support of others, | have made a number of submissions over the last nearly two years,

‘Some progress has been made, but many of the issues have been ignored. | am sure that you do
not wish to have the matters repeated at this time.

‘There is much that could be done to improve the Plan you have before you
At the July 27 Meeting, | suggested that the documents be referred to a committee 80 that i can be
given detailed study. Such a committee might include citzens and representatives of various
interests within the City

| hope that Council will wish to consider this suggestion

Colin J. Williams.

Informs

nn from ESET Smart Security, version of virus signature database 5440 (20100910)

‘The message was checked by ESET Smart Security

hitpy/www.eset.com

Official Plan - A Citizen Commentary
Brockville First Draft 2010 Official Plan

Dated February 2010

‘The Official Plan is Brockville’ primary planning document. It directs public works. and guides all
development, when and where growth may take place, and on what scale and for what purpose the land
‘may be used. It is required that the Official Plan be consistent with the Provincial Policy Statement,

‘The rules to guide the development of an Official Plan are set out in the Provincial Policy Statement.
Below, we describe the base from which the plan is to be developed. Later we offer comments on the
‘way in which the various aspects of this First Draft measure up. We shall look at the proposals to meet
the City’s obligations to develop a more vibrant economy, to preserve the City's cultural and natural
heritage and particularly to preserve and enhance one of Brockville's treasures, its waterfront,

Introduction

16. (1) An official plan shall contain,

(a) goals, objectives and policies established primarily to manage and direst physical chan
Coie abel te soul escrte asda envccument fe suriepeley opus oP,
{ran area thas without municipal organ zation; a

@) Anoffical plan may contain,
() a description ofthe measures and procedures proposed to atin the objectives of the plan;
(oh eseriptin ofthe measures and procedures fr nering and cuting the views of
Public in respect of a proposed antendment tothe official plan or proposed revision o
Erin respect of proposed zoning by-law:

‘Ontario Provincial Polley Statement

‘Any planning decision by council i to be consistent with this policy statement. The full document is

available onthe world-wide we at hitp/ww.mah gov.on.ca/Pagel 485.aspx

This section provides a snapshot of Brockville, as it is now.

It provides the base for the planning of the Brockville of the future
Broclwille's population is growing slowly, 0.5% per year since 1996 and 0.3% per year since 1981,

10f9

‘Comparatively, Brockville's $5+ population i larger in proportion and has increased at a faster rate
‘than the Ontario average.

‘The average annual rate of housing construction activity is expected to average close tothe historical
levels at just over 50 new units per year.

‘In total, the City’s residential housing supply amounts approximately 45 years of likely need,

‘The City has a more-than-adequate supply of commercial and industrial land to 2031 and beyond, but,
there isa shortage of institutional land

‘The municipal taxes increase beyond the rate of inflation and the Cty could be ina deficit in 2010.
‘The city and immediate region lost 14 % of its manufacturing workforce in 2009 and 28% since 2002.
‘The median houschold income in 2005 was $55,265, compared with $69,156 forthe Province.

‘The labour force participation rate was $7.2%, compared with 67.19% forthe province.

‘The proportion ofthe owned dwellings was 58.7%, compared with 71.0% for the province.

‘The rental vacancy rates were higher in 2009 than 2008, they now stand at 4.6%

Housing affordability in Brockvil

is increasingly becoming a concem.

‘The City has a sewage treatment plant which fails to meet environmental standards but is being
‘upgraded. The city is notable to accept industries requiring significant water treatment because the
‘upgrading does not expand the hydraulic capacity ofthe plant. The current average daily flow uses
'89% of the plant's capacity. For some recent years, not 2008 or 2008, at peak flow, untreated sewage is
seat tothe St Lawrence River.

‘The city has a vibrant arts and music scene, an excellent public library, a well-used museum and many
social and business groups.

How does the draft measure up?

General

‘The 255 page document sets out some good policies but is too wordy. In spite of this, it relies, for
some definitions, on a last one other document. The Draft Official Plan, referenced below as the
Plan, should be sble to stand on its own,

‘Too often, itis permissive where the text should be prescriptive, or left out altogether. In other words,
itsays that the city may do this or that, instead of clearly establishing a policy. The word “shal” often
appears with “encourage”, rather that saying that it “shall do” something.

‘To give a trivial example, the plan says:

“Council may enact by-laws pursuant to the Building Code Act, seting out minimum standards
‘Jor the maintenance and occupancy of all buildings and properties.”

20f9

‘The City has already decided that it needs a Property Standards By-law. The Plan should be made clear
that it will continue to have such a By-law.

‘Section 16 2) ofthe Planning Act is ignored. The measures ae potentially the most useful part of
plan, they tell the reader what actions are to be taken to achieve the same objective.

‘The word sustainability is liberally sprinkled through the document, The plan says:
“This Plan has been prepared under an umbrella of sustainably.”

‘Surely, what is needed is a foundation of sustainability. The factors challenging sustainability ae not
tified. There ae few policy proposals which contribute in any way tothe sustainability of|
Brockville.

‘There are too many cases where it is suggested or mandated that the City develop plans or strategies,
‘examples are

‘+ cultural Heritage Master Plan;
+ Archeological Master Plan;

+ St Lawrence Park Master Plan;

+ acomprchensive development masterplan;
+ Transportation Master Plan;

+ Infrastructure Renewal Strategy:

+ a Source-water Protection Plan;

‘+ athydeaulic capacity e-rting analysis, for sewage treatment;
‘+ a Stewart Blvd/Highway 401 secondary plan and urban design strategy;
‘+a secondary plan and urban design strategy forthe Walmart area;

+ acomprehensive retail study;

+ atourism strategy;

+ ahousing strategy; and

ee.
‘Should atleast some of these these not be part of the presently contracted work?
There should be a definition of “Notice tothe pul

Repors in connection with a development application should be available atleast S days, excluding
weekends and holidays, before the matter is heard by Council or a commitee.

Bonusing

‘We would like to see a clear requirement that there should be a cost benefit analysis, assessing the costs
‘and benefits to the people of Brockville. We should learn from the Tall Ships Landing (ISL), where
such an analysis was not available to Council when it was approved in September 2006. The Maritime
Discovery Centre was to be a $6 million project. It went from there to $12 million, to $18 million and

30f9

is currently estimated to cost $19 million.

Bulkiness of buildings
‘A general increase in building heights is proposed along the waterfront, on main streets and elsewhere
‘The Tall Buildings Guidelines are not readily accessible, They are buried in a multi-volume document.
‘The angular plane and its meaning need o be clarified and spelled out in the Plan, It should be clearly
established whether height is measured in metres or storeys. Through a clever move atthe end of the
‘Tall Ships Landing OMB hearing a change was made and the maximum height was increased by two
storeys on two buildings.

‘The Floor Space Index has been used as a measure of bulkiness in urban planning, It is not used in the
Plan, Some control on bulkiness is needed

‘The Wedgewood is generally thought to be a successful development. It snot clear that it would have
been approved under these Guidelines.

Conversion of Affordable Rental Housing to Condominiums
‘This isto be discouraged ifthe rental vacancy rate is less than 3%. Is discouragement enough?

Downtown

tis good to see that this is a priority area for development. We feel that not enough attention has been
{given to the development opportunities inthis area. Example sites are at Buell and George and at King
and Home,

‘The Plan fails to notice the potential for developing the two blocks north of Pine St. between Wall St
and Garden St, (Wall St. Seniors and the St. Vincent de Paul Hospital site) . The later presents an
‘opportunity fr recycling the building.

Economy

‘This is potentially the most important part ofthe Plan. Brockville needs wealth creating jobs, 8
significant component ofa sustainable city

‘There is talk of an “innovation and a knowledge, service and information-based economy” but no
‘measure is proposed that will take us in that direction, Much ofthe City's information services has
bbeen contracted out, instead of developing local talent. Gas Tax money is spent on American database
softwar, instead of exploring open source software.

Incubators appear to have made a contribution to enterprise creation in Brockville, but no attetion has
been paid to these in the plan.

Every municipality seems to be promoting tourism, with litte evidence thatthe public money being
spent is bringing a worthwhile return. Yes, some jobs ae being created, but these are typically with a
low wage and seasonal,

4069

Heritage Buildings

‘We are very satisfied withthe wording that has been included in Section 3.4 on Cultural Heritage
provisions. This is very important for any Official Plan being prepared inthe Province of Ontario. The
authors of the Plan have made sure that all the correct words and policies are placed inthis section,
Future councils may not know what all the new Heritage Act amendments passed in 2005 mean to
‘Cultural Heritage preservation inthis province and our city.

Heritage Brockville has existed forthe last 32 years. We hope thatthe text ofthe Plan will correct the
zname of this advisory committee.

would be good to have a web page giving the inventory of designated properties.

Monitoring
Monitoring is of tle value unless public reporting is required at defined intervals. The Plan is too
often not clear with respect to either reporting or the interval between reports,

‘The health ofthe City Islands is tobe monitored. The health criteria are not identified,

‘We applaud the proposal to actively involve the public in the monitoring of this Plan. Systematic
reporting would be essential for this.

Noise
Its good that attention is given to noise abatement and attenuation, but the Province’s Noise
‘Assessment Criteria in Land Use Planning deserves more prominence in the Plan

Parks

‘The Plan gives no information about how Brockville’ parks compare with other towns, in terms of
hectares of parkland per 1,000 residents, how well Brockville’s parks are distributed, and what
ditional park lands are needed asthe population grows. Are parks connected forthe benefit of the
walker and the eyclist?

‘The Plan says “The City shall secure the maximum benefit of the Planning Act with espect to land
<edication for park development”. This clea statement is applauded,

Process in the Development of the Plan
‘The consultants proposed a Public Engagement Strategy,
hup/citybrockvilleon.caindex.fin21D=299

‘Citizens applaud this policy, adopted by the City Council, because itis Inlusive, Meaningful
Proactive and Responsive

The last of these says “Fourth, we willbe responsive and react quickly to comments and questions
‘rom the public. Any individual that as taken the time to participate should find out how thei input
has influenced the direction ofthe study, especially when itcomes time to develop
recommendations..."

5o0f9

‘Unfortunately, things haven't worked out this way. There has been no meaningful exchange between
those who have questions or comments and the consultants or staff. In short, the system has been
unresponsive.

‘St Lawrence Park

‘A Master Plan is left forthe future, but it is not made clear that this should be handled through a public
process, such as that of an Official Plan Amendment.

Sewage Treatment
‘The Plan says “tis anticipated thatthe North Trunk Sanitary Sewer shall be extended through the
north end ofthe City to provide forthe future development of the Northwest quadrant”. It isnot clear
‘when this is needed, or Whether it will be needed by 2031.

An expensive refit of the treatment plant i under way bt no consideration is given to improving the
capacity spat ofthis project

[No data is given as to how many dwellings are connected to the system from Elizabethtown and
Brockville respectively.

‘Special Needs Housing, including Affordable Housing

‘The Watson Report makes it clear that Brockville is short of Affordable Housing. However, there is no
assessment of the need for Special Needs Housing in general and nothing is proposed inthe Plan to
censure that such housing will be provided,

Provision is made that such housing may be built near Stewart Blvd and the Highway 401 and inthe
area ofthe Walmart store. But this provision does not, in itself, ensure the construction ofa single
special needs dwelling unit.

Page 3-3-46 has “Group homes shall ot be concentrated and shal be generally located within the Urban Are.

Itis good to avoid creating Special Needs Ghettos but surely something clearer than “not concentrated”
is needed.

In view of the need for affordable housing, could the dimensional standards of rooms be relaxed for
Affordable Housing?”
‘North Grenville has a specific measure to improve housing:

11.32 Measures to Increase the Supply of Affordable Housing

‘Council may, where a need for affordable housing has been identifed in keeping
with polcy 11.3.5, ), undertake all or some of the following:

‘) Require larger residential development proposals to include a 25%
‘affordable housing component through a mix of housing types through

the folowing method:

|. Larger residential development proposals, generally greater than

‘S hectares in size, may require up to 25% of the new housing units

60f9

to be in forms other than single detached dwelings.

Clearly, Brockville is in need of some such measure, but made mandatory. Funding from senior
‘governments isnot likely to be readily available in the future.

Kingston has a target of 25% of all new housing units, but no policy to achieve the target. Brockville
proposes no target

‘There has been no exploration ofthe possibility of working with Habitat for Humanity oof initiating
cooperative housing projects.
‘Style concerns with the draft

(On the printed version, the font is to small the colour ofthe font would be better as black, there is too
‘much white-space and the pictures, some of which are reversed, contribute litle.

Similarly, the page numbering is complicated and inconsistent, as are the numbering ofthe sections and
ssub-sections. It would be helpful if the page numbers conformed with the Adobe pages.

‘The Plan has “the interpretation of this Plan shall be conducted in conjunction with the Ministry of
Municipal Affairs and Housing”. Surely the Plan should, subject to the Provincial Policy Statement, be
clear without the need for ministry interpretation.

‘Too much text has been copied from the Provincial Policy Statement. It adds litle tothe essence of the
Plan

‘An index would both help the reader and help to bring out the duplication of text.
The words goals and objectives are synonymous. They don't need to be repeated asa pat.

Sunset Clause

Itis good to see that a sunset clause has been proposed for approvals:
“When conditions of development approval, draft plan approval or
‘otherwise, are not fulilled within a reasonable time period ..”

It should be clear (i) that this applies to site-specific Plan amendments, condominium, ete. and
lear time period is stated, perhaps two or three years.

Sustainability
‘The word sustainability is scattered through the document but no information i given about any threats
to the sustainability ofthe Cty of Brockville

Is this political corretness run amok or are there substantial problems that aged tobe adresed in the
Plan? If there are threats is it possible that they are most likely to arise outside ofthe current planning
horizon ~ ie. beyond 20317

LEED ND js recommended for neighbourhood construction. This would likely help to reduce energy
demand but it needs tobe mandatory and the level of certification required should be stated


LEED CANADA FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION AND MAJOR RENOVATIONS 2008
100 base points; € possible Imovaton in Desig and 4 Regional Priory pons

Certied 40-49 ponte
‘Siver §0-£8 points
Gold 60-78 points
Platinum 80 points and above

Taller Building Development

Most people would prefer to see taller buildings north of George St and Pine St, instead Schedule 2
places them along Water St, mainly tothe south. Why is addtional value being granted to these
Property owners at this time?

‘The public made it clear, atthe Public Open House #1, that they would prefer not to have tall buildings
‘on the waterfront. Clearly people place greater value in public access tothe waterfront with
appropriate public amenities

Targets
‘The City has annual growth targets for population and employment of 196 and 2% respectively. Any
action likely to achieve these targets is missing from the Plan. Instead, the City may undertake a study.

‘There is a target for intensification, but it is forthe “units created during the planning period”. Year by
year targets are needed.

“The City may establish sector specific targets for greenhouse gas, water use and energy use
reductions”. Again, year by year targets are needed, together with a clear methodology to calculate
‘greenhouse gas emissions and energy use

Trails

‘Some extensions are proposed but we are not told ofthe ownership ofthese lands, Its questionable
‘whether the tails should be routed over public ads. In the case of the important north-south link, is
there no alternative to the use of the busy Ormond Street?

‘Changes tothe trail system should require some open public process.

Transportation

[No service objectives have been established forthe 3 bus transit service of the two bus para-transit
service. How does the six day limited hours service, hourly service compare with similar
‘municipalities?

'No consideration appears to have been given to other means of meeting the public transportation
needs

80f9

Waterfront

‘There should be ) the Waterfront area and b) the Main Street area separated for planning purposes
not grouped together. They are quite different in their nature and purpose.

‘The Plan should reflect the clearly-expressed feelings of the public that it should be almost impossible
to get approval for highrise buildings below Water

‘The coloured Schedule map #2 atthe back should not be endorsing specific high floor numbers for
evelopment.

‘The former Smarts Foundry Machine Shop building on lower Kincaid St. should not have 10 (floors)
placed on it at this point. This is one example. This property should be labelled as a redevelopment
‘opportunity only if it re-uses the existing building, or example, asa potential residential
condominium.

‘We already have an existing skyline in the downtown area, It is not nesessary to promote new building
‘that will block existing vistas

{In fact, the vistas that we value look diagonally in all directions not simply down a roadway. The
public was quite vocal about examining how the city looks from the river. This should be reflected in
the Urban Design section 33,

When and where growth may take place
‘The Plan proposes a priority scheme 1) Downtown, 2) the 401/Stewart Blvd and 3) the Walmart area,
also creates an Urban Reserve Area. These are good but there i no clear mechanism proposed to
ensure development occurs in the priority areas. There is litle that will bring back life and vitality to
King St

Currently, based on the 1987 Official Plan, the City's residential housing supply amounts to
approximately 45 years of likely need. There is no clear statement in the Plan as tothe supply after the
Pian is approved.

Woodland Protection

‘The Provincial Policy statement says “Development and site alteration shall not be permitted in
significant woodlands”. The Plan doesnt protect this land

Conclusion

| would like to thank all who have contributed to this series, through the months of work with Working
Group of Citizens Brockville and through reviewing drafts. The writer is solely responsible forthe
content.

2010-06-23

ow

909

TROEPENDEN? Citos 7 White, Present
‘TELECOMMUNICATIONS LID. Sitbiteaetes

August 9, 2010

Mayor Dave Henderson
City of Brockville

1 King Sweet West
Brockville, Ontario
KOV 3PS

‘Subject: Economic Development and the Official Plan

Dear Mayor Henderson:

| am uncertain if itis too late to voice an opinion on the Official Plan or to respectfully offer
recommendations as it relates to areas which, in my opinion, are of prime importance for the
‘future of economic development in Brockville. These areas include downtown and the north end
of the City of Brockville

1. Downtown Waterfront Development

‘As a Brockville businessman, I look back to just a few years ago when the City of
Brockville, with much fanfare and excitement, announced a need and a plan for “Downtown
Revitalization”. This plan stated the need to attract more people to live in the downtown core
and therefore the need for residential development in the area. As T remember, the City
introduced the Brownfield program to attract investors to the downtown as there was « need t0
clean up contaminated land prior to new development. Excitement and enthusiasm abounded as
investors were attracted and plans for waterfront development were announced.

Today, the City has attracted two serious investors who have purchased land for developmer
the downtown core and it appears to me that the City has succeeded inthe fist step ofits plan for
downtown revitalization. In my opinion, the need for downtown revitalization has not gone
‘away. Its as important today, if not more important than it was five years ago. However, we
‘seem to be stalled in taking the second step which, in my opinion, is to work in a positive and
flexible manner with the developers to build the needed facilites which need t0 meet City
requirements, within reason, but also have to meet the needs of the developers as it relates to
profit and sustainability forthe future

When considering the opposition to downtown development, I respectfully submit the need for
‘our city leaders to show strong leadership in this area and in support ofthe initial plan for
downtown revitalization. I also respectfully suggest that the City engage in & communication

‘campaign advising all citizens of the serious requirement for revitalization in the downtown core
and the opportunity we now have in front of us to achieve this goal

When reviewing the proposed developments which include the Simon Fuller project and The
Moorings, including the former EIT site, I believe it could be important to point out the
following.

‘A. The Fuller project is being developed on property that sat vacant for years and was an
eyesore on our waterfront, The new development has litle if any impact on the use
of the Brockville waterfront by local citizens and tothe bet of my knowledge it was
never used for this purpose inthe past. 1am uncerin ofthe impact of limited river
view based on the height of the buildings, however, in my opinion, the benefits to
downtown far outweigh any disadvantage in this regud

B. The Moorings property and also the former EIT building is private property and was
never utilized for use by private citizens. Development in this area will have litle
Jmpact on access to the river and all eurent access to the river such as Centeen Park,
Hardy Park, St Lawrence Park, Blockhouse Island, etc. will be preserved. When
‘considering development on the former EIT property, I believe it may be important to
‘make all aware that development will not impact the boardwalk across the property at
the river's edge. This 30° area was sold to the City by the previous owners for this
‘purpose which will remain a benefit to the City for years to come,

‘Again, in my view, development in this area will have little impact, if any, on river
access or river view and the benefits of new development including much needed soil
remediation will far outweigh the alternative,

2. Development on Highway 29 (Stewart Boulevard and Brockville North)

| read with interest the consultant's negative response to the public request to designate
property for development in areas of Brockville North. As a land owner in Brockville North, this
is of great concem to me as I am sure itis of great concem to many businesses and citizens
located on Highway 29 from Brockville to Centennial Road and to the Brockville city limits to
the west and tothe north.

Highway 29 from the city limits is a main artery into the city and an ideal location for new
business start-ups. There is also substantial land designated residential that could be utilized for
residential development in the surrounding area as business grows and develops along this
important artery.

1 question the wisdom of an offical plan that projects minimum growah for Brockville and area
lover the next 20 years. In contrast, I respectfully submit that the City should proceed with
development in the downtown core and apply for infrastructure funding and plan to extend water
and sewage facilities to the city limits in the north to support business growth and expansion
slong Highway 29 and to encourage residential development in the surrounding area.

Page 2

InSummary

extend my appreciation for the opportunity of providing this information and hopefully it will
provide food for thought as you plan for the future of Brockville. In our busy lives, itis easy to
lose sight of the forest for the trees and I believe that in Brockville the forest is “Downtown
Revitalization”, which will not be achieved by a few festivals each year and tourism in the
summer but rather with needed development and people living downtown.

Surong leadership is required to focus on the important goals, stay the course and set a clear
direction forthe future.

Sincerely
Cn eae

©. White

President & CEO

Easter Independent Telecommunications Lid.

ec: Dave Paul, City of Brockville, Eeon Dev;

Page

M. Maureen Pascoe-Mertiey, MCIP, RPP
Director of Pianring

iy of Brockvte

1 King Steet West

Brockvile, ON KBV 7AS

Dear Ms. Pascoe Merkley:
137 GEORGE STREET — TRINITY ANGLICAN CHURCH

We ae wring on behalf of ou cent, RGB Group. RGB Group has been granted authorty by
the St. Lawrence Parish ofthe Angican Diocese of Ontario, to represent ila atlas related fo
the planning and development of its property at 137 George Statin the City of rockve. Ths
‘reper is curently home to the Trnty Anglican Church

‘As you may krow, the Trey Anglcan Church sno longer functioning as a place of worship and
the Angican Diocese of Onario is inthe process of seling the property Promina pans for fe
{future redevelopment ofthe property include the addison of residential units on a portion ofthe
site while preserving the existing church bung.

‘The pending sala ofthe property and the eoliminary plans fo its redevelopment are not
‘compatbe wih the proposed Insttutonal Area designation dustated on Schedule 1~ Cty
Structure, ofthe Citys Final Draft Oficial Pan (uly 2010). Acoorsingly, out cient formally
Fequesting thatthe ene propery be included inthe Downiown and Central Waterront Area
esignaton and associated Mined Use Node,

Indusion ofthe property inthe Downtown and Central Waterront Are designation and
‘associated Med Use Node would provisegrostrfexbilty interme of land use, bul frm, and
‘urban design tha is both in keeping with and required by the fuze redevelopment ofthe
‘ropery. Future redevelopment ofthe propery at 137 George Street would certaiy be
Consistent with te goals, objecives, and policies of te Downtown and Cental Waterront Area
‘designation and associated Mixed Use Node wh respect oreveaizaton and intoraication in
this area ofthe Cty. Fnaly, tis important to note thatthe roperty abuts the Boundary f the
‘Downtown and Cenral Watertont Area designation and associatod Mixed Uso Node arts
Inclusion in these designations represents a local extension of the boundaries,

[Exit ton the folowing page Hustates the requested change inthe boundaries that would

incorporate the property at 187 George Stret. We are concent a te requests change

{Roretets good planing and would prove spicant banat rte communi the Cy, and
roperty ower.

‘Sons gos cttme pov pene nt tad ne Nes

wom 2

you have any questions or require anything futher to assist in your consideration of tis
sent i ert cea ye

“Chk —

evn Hart MCP, RPP, LEED® AP

Ce: S. Seale, Cer, Cy of Brockville
Rolf Baumann, President, RGB Group
John Ulana, NCIP, RPP, 1B| Group (Kingston)

HERITAGE BROCKVILLE

Brockville’s Municipal Heritage Advisory Committee

Brockville City Hal P.O. Box $000, 1 King St. West, Brockville, ON, Canada K6V 7AS

Ms S. Seale, Clerk,
City of Brockville

1 King St. West,
Brockville, ON
KV 7AS

September 9, 2010

Dear Ms, Seale
SUBJECT: The Official Plan Submission.

‘The new Official Plan was discussed at our regular meeting on Tuesday September 7*. It was
decided, at that meeting, that the following comments be made before itis adopted:
+ We feel that section 3.4 entitled Revitalizing Our City was particularly well written and
encompasses many good ideas. It provides a strong foundation to assist inthe revival of
‘our downtown.
+ Parts of Schedule 2 has caused us consternation. This map entitled Design Strategy =
Downtown and Central Waterfront indicates selected sites where the numberof storeys are
indicated. We find this problematic as has the potential to impact existing buildings that
should be protected. Indicating areas that could be developed for taller buildings gives
legitimacy for those tall buildings. We suggest that, in the future, ia development were to
be proposed for these sites an appropriate height could be decided at that time. Attached is
«8 copy of Schedule 2 indicating the areas of our concern.
‘We would prefer to see schedule 2 omitted from the Official Plan.

‘Thank you for considering these comments.

Sincerely yours,

Paul Bullock

Chair, Heritage Brockville
151 King StE.,
Brockville, ON

Kev ict

ce: File
Ene.


uid we
STTIANOOWR


ETT
—— —_ ny i ~, +
~ COMMENTS/SARAES TOYS. Receved
Mat ne ccnsanily, vin prlorcby {af M6 26 200
¢g Planning

thas

LY Vr OKOL KYL
BLO S OEFICLAL PLAC

LE 40M a Ch LFA x
veal _

= ME Le fennal. akeutedtncludes:.

mre LOC ete wens sees

= an inde
_ epee the. ted é
jan
Lk Bt

fersen be ncn hen. hut 1p eau th

fe pel: Spare 6-1 rsa ustt dba cxcaritu)-r4solein
Cor tere obs sar. ¢
fp tnle, Cotiwer (ee coal thes choc

sntbulld d20sn= C2 ONn = Cate n,

land watt ad madd fate fe. a —

ae! she og
Canale ee Los
pil Saab main
sip empea ellis b
Gad ths bint


Pe 2a, he bebe 3 Miirit Ou): token wisely ais
ig atthe. celonsl eae -

| wbac Lhe hah af Sanh the ofeeypes ;

Cs Baldy pitas TDi hawt Chel us te he

nlbnde es

eens pe ye a alta n tbycle tide

— us tears chat.
a Onn rem ce ee

a Foe Sa a en

2 elias et) “
= Coa a Le toi cout

Mind yousac attr lids) te The
sore ma Ps. Sane


