City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes

10 PM - Tuesday, May 26, 2020
Virtual Meeting

‘The Council meeting was called to order on Tuesday, May 26, 2020, at 6:00 PM, in
the Virtual Meeting, with the following present:

Members Mayor Jason Baker, Councillor Leigh Bursey, Councillor Jeff

Present: Earle, Councillor Jane Fullarton, Councillor Larry Journal,
Councillor Mike Kalivas, Councillor Nathalie Lavergne,
Councillor Cameron Wales, and Councillor Matt Wren

Regrets: Nil.

Staff: Lynda Ferguson, Director of Finance, Janette Loveys, City
Manager, Sandra MacDonald, City Clerk, and Peter Raabe,
Director of Environmental Services

MAYOR'S REMARKS.

Mayor Baker reminded residents to shop local to help the businesses that have
been able to be reopened. The City is working on the re-opening of the marina and
off leash dog park which are expected to open very shortly. His Worship thanked
the community and all the business owners for their patience and understanding
while we work to establish a new normal. The Province has made the testing
assessment centre now open to anyone who thinks they may have been exposed
or are experiencing symptoms of COVID-19. The testing centre is located at the
Brockville Memorial Centre.

Councillor Journal wished Mayor Baker a happy birthday on behalf of members of
council and the community.

DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST
Nil.

ADOPTION OF COUNCIL MINUTES
Moved by: Councillor Wren
THAT the minutes of the Council Meeting of May 12, 2020 be adopted and

circulated as read.
CARRIED

Page 1 of 7

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, May 26, 2020

CORRESPONDENCE, COMMUNICATIONS AND PETITIONS

Brockville Pride Week 2020 - 10 Anniversary Season

Moved by: Councillor Bursey

THAT June 1st to June 7th, 2020 be proclaimed as Brockville Pride Week
and that the LGBTQ2+ rainbow flag be flown from Monday, June 1st, 2020
to Monday, June 8th, 2020 in recognition of Brockville Pride's tenth season
of advocacy.

CARRIED
2. Correspondence Rent Relief

L. Bursey

Moved by: Councillor Wales

THAT the correspondence dated May 14, 2020 from L. Bursey regarding

COVID-19 rent relief be received.

CARRIED

DELEGATIONS
Nil.

STAFF REPORTS

Page 2 of 7

AMO - Blue Box Transition to Full Producer Responsibility

Moved by: Councillor Wales

WHEREAS the amount of single-use plastics leaking into our lakes, rivers,
waterways is a growing area of public concern;

WHEREAS reducing the waste we generate and reincorporating valuable
resources from our waste stream into new goods can reduce GHGs
significantly;

WHEREAS the transition to full producer responsibility for packaging, paper
and paper products is a critical to reducing waste, improving recycling and
driving better economic and environmental outcomes;

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, May 26, 2020

For:

WHEREAS the move to a circular economy is a global movement, and that
the transition of Blue Box programs would go a long way toward this
outcome;

WHEREAS the City of Brockville is supportive of a timely, seamless and
successful transition of Blue Box programs to full financial and operational
responsibility by producers of packaging, paper and paper products;

WHEREAS the Association of Municipalities of Ontario has requested
municipal governments with Blue Box programs to provide an indication of
the best date to transition our Blue Box program to full producer
responsibility;

‘THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED:

THAT the City of Brockville is supportive of AMO’s position that
municipalities should be allowed to select a transition date, however, until
the Province provides additional details surrounding the regulatory
requirements of the transition process, the City Is not in a position to
select a date between January 1, 2023 and December 31, 2025 in which
the transition to Full Producer Responsibility is being proposed.

AND THAT this decision Is based on the existing Blue Box collection and
processing contract the City has with Green For Life which expires in
November of 2022.

AND THAT the City of Brockville would be interested in providing collection
services to Producers should the City be able to arrive at mutually
agreeable commercial terms.

AND THAT any questions regarding this resolution be directed to Peter
Raabe, Director of Environmental Services at 613-342-8772 ext. 3257 or
praabe@brockville.com,

AND FURTHER THAT the resolution be forwarded to the Association of
Municipalities of Ontario and the Ontario Ministry of the Environment,
Conservation and Parks.

Mayor Baker, Councillor Bursey, Councillor Fullarton, Councillor
Journal, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor Lavergne, Councillor Wales,
and Councillor Wren

Against: Councillor Earle

Page 3 of 7

CARRIED 8-1 on a recorded vote

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, May 26, 2020

2.

For:

Page 4 of 7

2020 Annual Repayment Limit

Moved by: Councillor Journal

THAT report SR2020-89 2020 Annual Repayment Limit, which includes the
Annual Repayment Limit (ARL) for 2020 as calculated by the Ministry of
Municipal Affairs and Housing and updated by the Director of Finance, be
received for information.

Mayor Baker, Councillor Bursey, Councillor Earle, Councillor
Fullarton, Councillor Journal, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor
Lavergne, Councillor Wales, and Councillor Wren

CARRIED 9-0 on a recorded vote

2020 Tax Ratios, Capping Thresholds and Tax Rates

Moved by: Councillor Earle

‘That report SR2020-90 Tax Ratios, Capping, Thresholds and Tax Rates be
received, and the following be adopted;

1

2.
3.

THAT Council authorize the tax ratios for all classes as per the
attached schedule for the 2020 tax year and;

THAT Council authorize the following 2020 Capping Options:

THAT the 2020 annual cap for industrial and multi-residential
classes will be set at 5% (five percent) of the previous year’s
annualized taxes and;

THAT the 2020 annual cap for the commercial class will be set at
10% (ten percent) of the previous year’s annualized taxes and;
THAT in the commercial, industrial and multi-residential classes
that the CVA Threshold for capped properties whose 2020 revised
taxes fall within $150.00 of the current years’ CVA tax will be
moved to full current value assessment and;

THAT in the commercial, industrial and multi-residential classes
that the CVA Threshold for clawed back properties whose 2020
revised taxes fall within the $150.00 of the current years’ CVA tax
will be moved to full current value assessment and;

THAT any insufficiency in the self-financing cap shall be added to
the 2020 levy and;

THAT when a property in the protected classes of commercial,
Industrial or multi-residential class reach full current value
assessment (CVA) it is removed from the capping and claw back
system and;

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, May 26, 2020

For:

For:

Page 5 of 7

9. THAT Council authorize staff to levy $36,571,631 and impose
municipal and education tax rates for the year 2020 and;

10. THAT Council authorize the levy of $296,367 on behalf of the
Downtown Board Improvement Association (DBIA) to impose
special purpose rates for the year 2020 and;

11. THAT the necessary by-laws be enacted.

Mayor Baker, Councillor Bursey, Councillor Earle, Councillor
Fullarton, Councillor Journal, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor
Lavergne, Councillor Wales, and Councillor Wren

CARRIED 9-0 on a recorded vote

2020 Cashflow Options-Update

Moved by: Councillor Lavergne

THAT report SR2020-91 Cashflow Options-Update be received and the
following be adopted;

1. THAT staff monitor and provide regular updates to Council the effects
the COVID 19 Pandemic has on the City’s cashflow and;

2. THAT internal short-term borrowing is the first avenue explored by
staff in the event of cash flow issues after the August 28, 2020 tax
due date from the City’s reserve funds at the market interest rate on
the City’s bank accounts and;

3. THAT staff determine the appropriate timing to make application for,
and the amount of, long-term debt regarding the remaining $2.76
million required for the Brockville General Hospital expansion project
and report back to Council and;

4. THAT application for the long-term debt, be made to Infrastructure
Ontario.

Mayor Baker, Councillor Bursey, Councillor Earle, Councillor
Fullarton, Councillor Journal, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor
Lavergne, Councillor Wales, and Councillor Wren

CARRIED 9-0 on a recorded vote

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, May 26, 2020

NEW BUSINESS - REPORT FROM MEMBERS OF COUNCIL

1. National Residential Rent Relief Program
Councillor L. Bursey

Moved by: Councillor Bursey

WHEREAS the Council of the Corporation of the City of Brockville recognize
that many at-risk tenants are facing significant challenges both paying
their rent each month, and providing for their families in these uncertain
times; and

WHEREAS there are limited supports available to renters, and front-line
support agencies are already stretching themselves and their dollars to
assist vulnerable populations in dire need; and

WHEREAS recent cooperative efforts between the province of Ontario and
government of Canada to develop the Ontario-Canada Emergency
Commercial Rent Assistance Program have been welcomed and have been
designed to provide necessary relief for business owners in the wake of
COVID 19; and

WHEREAS no current duplicate program exists for residential renters who
are also adversely affected;

NOW THEREFORE the Council for the Corporation of the City of Brockville
echoes efforts being made by the provincial government, and we appeal to
the federal government to collaborate using all effective means to establish
a national residential rent relief program immediately. If a national
program is not reasonably accomplished, we appeal for an Ontario-Canada
residential rent relief program be established at a minimum.

For: Councillor Bursey, Councillor Fullarton, and Councillor Wales
Against: Mayor Baker, Councillor Earle, Councillor Journal, Councillor
Kalivas, Councillor Lavergne, and Councillor Wren
DEFEATED 3-6 on a recorded vote

UNFINISHED BUSINESS.
Nil.

EMERGENCY BUSINESS.
Nil.

Page 6 of 7

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, May 26, 2020

BY-LAWS
Nil.

CONFIRMATORY BYLAW

Moved by: Councillor Kalivas
Seconded by: Councillor Lavergne

‘THAT By-law Number 046-2020 to confirm the Proceedings of Council at its

meeting held on May 26, 2020 be read a first, second and third time, signed by

the Mayor and Clerk, sealed with the Seal of the Corporation and be recorded.
CARRIED

MAYOR'S ANNOUNCEMENTS

Mayor Baker reminded everyone that the City owned islands are closed by
Provincial order. There have been reports of boaters on the islands this past
weekend. Mayor Baker spoke to the affect that the pandemic has had on many
organizations who rely on events and festivals for fundraising. The latest casualty
being the Big Brothers Big Sisters of Leeds and Grenville Ribfest.

MEDIA QUESTION PERIOD

ADJOURNMENT

Moved by: Councillor Kalivas
Seconded by: Councillor Lavergne

THAT Council adjourn its proceedings until the next regular meeting scheduled
for June 9, 2020.
CARRIED

The meeting adjourned at 7:55 pm.

Mayor City Clerk

Page 7 of 7

