City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes

5:30 PM - Tuesday, October 22, 2024
City Hall, Council Chambers

‘The Council meeting was called to order on Tuesday, October 22, 2024, at 5:30
PM, in the City Hall, Council Chambers, with the following present:

Mayor Matt Wren, Councillor Philip Dery, Councillor Jeff
Earle, Councillor Jane Fullarton, Councillor Katherine Hobbs,
Councillor Mike Kalivas, Councillor Nathalie Lavergne,
Councillor Louise Severson, and Councillor Cameron Wales

Nil.

Staff: Sandra MacDonald, City Manager, Travis Raison, Project and
Asset Coordinator, Melanie Jones, Director of Fire & Partner
Services, Sheena Earl, City Clerk’and Chris Paul, Deputy
Fire Chief

Land Acknowledgement Statement

Mayor's Remarks

Mayor Wren welcomed members of the public and the Brockville Fire Department,
He began by recognizing the passing of Mr. Doug Ellis, former city alderman for
the West Ward and the City’s first Chief Administrative Officer. Mayor Wren
acknowledged Mr. Ellis's role as the founding president of the Ontario East
Economic Development Commission and 20 year Chair of the Ontario East
Municipal Conference along with roles with the Brockville Police Commission. His
Worship noted Mr. Ellis will be long remembered for his dedication to the
community and offered sincere sympathies to his family and friends.

With respect to the upcoming Remembrance Day ceremony, Mayor Wren
announced a parade will form outside of City Hall at 10:30 am and will depart for
the cenotaph. He invited all members and the public to attend and acknowledged
the work of the local Royal Canadian Legion branch for their efforts related to the
banners downtown and wished them a successful Poppy campaign.

His Worship referred to a Public Information Session scheduled for Wednesday,
October 30th at 6:00 pm at the Memorial Centre regarding the Cabin initiative
being developed at the former water treatment control property. Mayor Wren
acknowledged the cabins will not be a cure for the homelessness crisis, but said it
is a temporary measure to provide shelter until supportive housing units can be
established, noting this will require support from the upper levels of government,
He also said the Cabins won't remove the need for the Co-operative Care Centre
which Is a community-lead initiative, mostly funded by provincial dollars flowed

Page 1 of 10

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, October 22, 2024

through the United Counties of Leeds and Grenville with additional community
fundraising needed. Mayor Wren noted the centre requires charitable funding to
continue and said tax receipts can be provided. Mayor Wren also referred to the
launch of community consultation with respect to the United Counties of Leeds and
Grenville Housing and Homelessness Plan and encouraged those interested to
provide their input.

Disclosure of Interest
Nil.

Adoption of Council Minutes
Moved by: Councillor Earle

THAT the minutes of the Council Meeting of September 24, 2024 be adopted and
circulated as read.

CARRIED

Correspondence, Communication and Petitions

Poppy Week
(Royal Canadian Legion Branch 96)

Moved by: Councillor Severson

THAT Council do hereby proclaim November 4, 2024 to November 11,
2024 Poppy Week in the City of Brockville; and

THAT the Flag of Remembrance be flown at Tunnel Bay from November 4,
2024 to November 12, 2024.
CARRIED

2. Proclaim Oct 24 as ECE Appreciation Day
CUPE/SCFP Ontario

Moved by: Councillor Hobbs

THAT Council of the Corporation of the City of Brockville do hereby
proclaim October 24, 2024 as Child Care Worker and Early Childhood
Educator Appreciation Day in the City of Brockville.

CARRIED

Page 2 of 10

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, October 22, 2024

Pregnancy and Infant Loss Awareness
Brockville Butterfly Run

Moved by: Councillor Deery

THAT Council of the Corporation of the City of Brockville hereby proclaim
October 15th, 2024 as Pregnancy and Infant Loss Awareness Day in the
City of Brockville.

CARRIED

Appointments to Boards and Committees
(BPL, Heritage, CRCA)

Moved by: Councillor Lavergne

THAT Kate McKinnon, Councillor Jane Fullarton and Councillor Katherine
Hobbs be appointed to the Brockville Public Library Board; and

THAT Reid Stobo, Cheryl Wells and Jackie Schoemaker-Holmes be
removed from the Brockville Public Library Board; and

THAT Dean Aqigi be appointed to the Municipal Heritage Committee; and

‘THAT Councillor Katherine Hobbs and Councillor Jeff Earle be appointed to
the Cataraqui Region Conservation Authority Board; and

THAT the necessary by-law be enacted.
CARRIED

Miracle on King Street - Municipal Significance

Moved by: Councillor Kalivas

THAT Council approve the request from Brockville Downtown Business
Improvement Area (DBIA) to declare the event "Miracle on King Street*
which will be held on king Streets from Perth Street to Bethune Street on
Saturday, November 16, 2024, from 10 am to 4 pm to be an event of
*Municipal Significance” for the purpose of the issuance of Special Occasion
Permit required by the Alcohol and Gaming Commission of Ontario
(AGCO), subject to all necessary permits and approvals being obtained and
in compliance with all City of Brockville By-laws.

CARRIED

Page 3 of 10

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, October 22, 2024

Delegations and Presentations

Belles and Ladders Presentation
Chief Jones

Chief Jones reviewed the presentation for Council.

Procedure By-law Update
S. Earl, City Clerk

S. Earl offered an update on the Procedure By-law for Council.
Chief Jones and Deputy Chief Paul left the meeting.

Staff Reports
Nil.

General Committee
Councillor J. Fullarton, Chair

Councillors P. Dery, K. Hobbs, and L. Severson
Meeting held October 15, 2024

General - Consent Agenda
Councillor Severson request that Staff Report 2024-189 be removed and Councillor

Earle requested that Staff Reports 2024-98 and 2024-183 be removed from the
Consent Agenda

Moved by: Councillor Fullarton

THAT the following items, as listed on the General Committee agenda are
recommended by the Committee to be passed by Consent Agenda:

For: Mayor Wren, Councillor Dery, Councillor Earle, Councillor Fullarton,
Councillor Hobbs, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor Lavergne, Councillor
Severson, and Councillor Wales
CARRIED 9-0 on a recorded vote

Page 4 of 10

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, October 22, 2024

Page 5 of 10

2024-181
Tax Sale Extension Agreement
110 Brock St.

THAT the Mayor and City Clerk be authorized to enter into a tax sale
extension agreement with the Owner of the property known as 110 Brock
St for the payment of tax arrears; and

THAT delegated approval and signing authority be provided to the
‘Treasurer for the approval of future tax sale extension agreements.

2024-188
Sponsorship, Advertising and Donations Policy

‘THAT POL.A.234.157, Sponsorship, Advertising and Donations Policy be
approved.

2024-182
Brock Trail
Ferguson Falls Additional Expenses

THAT additional expenses not to exceed $10,155 for the installation of

signage, custom hand railings and a dedication plaque at the Ferguson

Falls section of the Brock Trail be approved and be funded by donations
and funds raised by the Brock Trail Committee,

Canada Community-Bullding Fund
Mayor Wren

‘THAT Council support the motion from the City of Quinte West regarding
the Canada Community-Building Fund allocations.

2024-185
William Street CN Overpass Rehabilitation
Public Tender Results

THAT Report 2024-185 William St. Overpass Rehabilitation Public Tender
Results be received for information.

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, October 22, 2024

General - Regular Agenda

For:

For:

2024-189
Blue Box Transition Period - Non-Eligible Sources

Moved by: Councillor Severson

THAT the City continues to collect blue box material from non-eligible
sources (NES) in the Downtown Business Improvement Area (DBIA); and

THAT the City discontinues collecting blue box material from all other non-
eligible sources outside the DBIA.

Councillor Earle, Councillor Fullarton, Councillor Dery, Councillor
Hobbs, Councillor Severson, Mayor Wren, Councillor Kalivas,
Councillor Lavergne, and Councillor Wales

CARRIED 9-0 on a recorded vote

2024-98
Multi-Use Recreation Facility - Capital Campaign

Moved by: Councillor Fullarton

THAT a Multi-Use Recreation Capital Campaign Committee be established
to develop and implementation of a comprehensive fundraising strategy
that aims to meet the fundraising target to support construction of the
Multi-Use Recreation Facility and associated improvements to the
Brockville Memorial Park; and

THAT a part time Fundraising Coordinator contract position (10 hours per
week) be established to support the Multi Use Recreation Facility Capital
Campaign to be funded through monies raised by the committee.

Councillor Deery, Councillor Fullarton, Councillor Hobbs, Councillor
Severson, Mayor Wren, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor Lavergne,
and Councillor Wales

Against: Councillor Earle

CARRIED 8-1 on a recorded vote

Councillor Lavergne asked for clarification on the duties of the Fundraising
Coordinator and the timeline for the position. In response, S. MacDonald said the
coordinator will provide administrative support and that approval for the position
to continue beyond 2025 will be required.

Page 6 of 10

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, October 22, 2024

2024-183
Fire Protection Agreement - Automatic Aid
Township of Elizabethtown-Kitley

Moved by: Councillor Deery

THAT the Mayor and Clerk be authorized to execute an agreement between
the Corporation of the City of Brockville and the Town of Elizabethtown
Kitley for a Fire Service Agreement for Automatic Aid.

For: Councillor Deery, Councillor Fullarton, Councillor Hobbs, Councillor
Severson, Mayor Wren, Councillor Earle, Councillor Kalivas,
Councillor Lavergne, and Councillor Wales
CARRIED 9-0 on a recorded vote

Councillor Earle noted the low cost of $7,999.00 associated with the agreement. In.
response, S. MacDonald clarified this is the cost of the retainer and all services
required are billed back to the Township as needed.

4. 2024-187
Community Sports and Recreation Infrastructure Fund Application
Stream 2: New Builds/Signature New Builds

Moved by: Councillor Hobbs

THAT application to the Community Sports and Recreation Infrastructure
Fund (CSRIF) as it relates to the Multi-Use Recreation Facility (MURF)
project be approved; and

THAT the application for CSRIF Stream 2 - New Builds/Signature New
Builds be applied on behalf of the new built project scope in accordance
with the MURF project design; and

and

THAT commitment to the funding model requirements of 50:50 cost
sharing as outlined in the CSRIF program application guideline be
approved in principle.

For: Councillor Hobbs and Councillor Severson

Mayor Wren, Councillor Dery, Councillor Earle, Councillor

Fullarton, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor Lavergne, and Councillor

Wales

DEFEATED 2-7 on a recorded vote
Page 7 of 10

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, October 22, 2024

New Business - Report from Members of Council
Nil.

Unfinished Business
Nil.

Emergency Business
Nil.

By-Laws

070-2024
Being a By-law to Authorize an Extension Agreement Pursuant to the
Municipal Act, 2001, Ontario Regulation 181/03 (110 Brock Street)

071-2024
Being a By-law to Amend By-law Number 021-1993 Being a By-law to
Regulate Traffic Within the Corporate Limits of the City of Brockville at the
intersections of Ormond Street and Charlotte Place and Water Street West
and Apple Street

This by-law was removed from the agenda pending the results of
community consultation.

072-2024
By-law to amend 003-2023 Being a By-law to Appoint Members to
Various Boards and Commissions (BPL/Heritage/CRCA)

073-2024
A By-law to Enter into an Agreement with Elizabethtown-kitley and the
City of Brockville for Fire Protection Services

074-2024
A By-law to Amend By-law Number 119-89 Being a By-law to Regulate
Parking (Visitor Information Centre)

Reading of the By-Laws

Moved by: Councillor Wales
Seconded by: Councillor Earle

THAT By-law Numbered 070-2024 and 072-2024 to 074-2024 be introduced and
the same be now read a first, second and third time, signed by the Mayor and the
Clerk, sealed with the Seal of the Corporation and be recorded.

CARRIED

Page 8 of 10

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, October 22, 2024

Mayor's Announcements
Nil.

Media Question Period

Motion to Move into Closed Session (Immediately Following the Regular
Meeting)

Moved by: Councillor Severson

THAT pursuant to Municipal Act, 2001, Section 239 Sub. 2 (b) and 2(k)
Council resolve itself Closed Session at 7:55 p.m., closed to the public to
consider:

1. personal matters about an identifiable Individual, including municipal
or local board employees; (Organizational Review, LGLDHU Update)
2. a plan or instruction to be applied to negotiations (City Manager's
Update)
CARRIED

The meeting recessed at 7:55 pm and resumed at 8:05 pm. Travis Raison left the
meeting.

Closed Meeting Matters
Motion to Adjourn Closed Session
Moved by: Councillor Deery

THAT the Closed Meeting of Council adjourn and the Open Session resume at
5 p.m.

CARRIED
Report of the Closed Session

Mayor Wren reported that Council met in closed session to discuss matters
pertaining to personal matters about an identifiable individual, specifically,
LGLDHU Update and Organizational Review and a plan or instruction to be applied
to negotiations, specifically City Manager's Update and took no action beyond
receiving information.

Page 9 of 10

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, October 22, 2024

Confirmatory By-Law
Moved by: Councillor Lavergne
Seconded by: Councillor Kalivas
‘THAT By-law Number 075-2024 to confirm the Proceedings of Council at its
meeting held on October 22, 2024 be read a first, second and third time, signed
by the Mayor and Clerk, sealed with the Seal of the Corporation and be recorded.
CARRIED

Adjournment

Moved by: Councillor Lavergne
Seconded by: Councillor Kalivas

THAT Council adjourn its proceedings until the next regular meeting scheduled for
November 12, 2024,
CARRIED

The meeting adjourned at 8:47 pm.

Mayor City Clerk

Page 10 of 10

