City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes

5:30 PM - Tuesday, April 9, 2024
City Hall, Council Chambers

‘The Council meeting was called to order on Tuesday, April 9, 2024, at 5:30 PM, in
the City Hall, Council Chambers, with the following present:

Mayor Matt Wren, Councillor Philip Dery, Councillor Jeff
Earle, Councillor Jane Fullarton, Councillor Katherine Hobbs,
Councillor Mike Kalivas, Councillor Nathalie Lavergne, and
Councillor Cameron Wales

Councillor Louise Severson

Lynda Ferguson, Director of Finance & IT Services, Sandra
MacDonald, City Manager, Robert Nolan, Director of
Economic and Development Services, Phil Wood, Director of
Operations, Melanie Jones, Director of Fire & Partner
Services, Peter Raabe, Director of Engineering &
Infrastructure Services, and Mark Noonan, Police Chief

Motion to Move into Closed Session (5:00 PM)

THAT pursuant to Municipal Act, 2001, Section 239 Sub. 2 (k), Council resolve
itself Closed Session, closed to the public to consider:

1. a position, plan, procedure, criteria or instruction to be applied to any
negotiations carried on or to be carried on by or on behalf of the
‘municipality or local board. 2001, c. 25, s. 239 (2); 2017, c. 10, Sched. 1,
s. 26, (Administration Building)

CARRIED

Closed Meeting Matter(s)
Land Acknowledgement Statement

Mayor's Remarks

Mayor Wren said he received many positive comments with respect to the recent
Eclipse viewing event at Blockhouse Island. He offered thanks to City staff, the
Aquatarium, the Royal Canadian Air Force Pipes and Drums, Brockville Police
Service, the DBIA, the Chamber of Commerce, and volunteers for all their hard
work.

His Worship mentioned a fire at a local business and said Council's thoughts are
with the owners of Casual Living.

Page 1 of 7

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, April 9, 2024

Mayor Wren said with Earth Day in April, a Brockville Community Clean-Up has
been scheduled to take place on Saturday, April 27th and he challenged
corporations to participate in a 20-minute clean-up challenge on Friday, April 26th.
His Worship invited those interested to visit cleanupbrockville.ca to register to
participate in either event,

Mayor Wren said each year the city disburses Legacy funds to various
organizations and noted the application deadline Is Friday, April 19th. He
encouraged those interested to visit brockville.com/legacy-fund for more
information.

Finally, His Worship celebrated the 10th anniversary of the establishment of the
Centeen Memorial Dive Park which now consists of more than 40 exhibits and
continues to grow.

Disclosure of Interest
Councillor Lavergne declared a pecuniary interest in the following agenda items:
Correspondence, Communications and Petitions

1. Red Hot and Blue Rockabilly Weekend - Municipal Significance; and

2, 1000 Islands Wine and Food Festival - Municipal Significance

Report of the Closed Session

Moved by: Councillor Kalivas
Seconded by: Councillor Wales

THAT Council rise from the Closed Session without reporting.
CARRIED

Adoption of Council Minutes
Moved by: Councillor Wales
THAT the minutes of the Council Meeting of March 26, 2024 be adopted and

circulated as read.
CARRIED

Page 2 of 7

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, April 9, 2024

Correspondence, Communication and Petitions

Red Hot and Blue Rockabilly Weekend
Municipal Significance

Councillor Lavergne left the meeting and did not vote on this matter.
Moved by: Councillor Kalivas

‘THAT Council approve the request from Nathalie Lavergne of Double
Concept Productions to declare "The Red Hot & Blue Rockabilly Weekend”
held at the Arts Hub, 32 Park Street, July 18 to 21, 2024, to be an event of
"Municipal Significance” for the purpose of the issuance of Special Occasion
Permit required by the Alcohol and Gaming Commission of Ontario
(AGCO), subject to all necessary permits and approvals being obtained and
in compliance with all City of Brockville By-laws.

CARRIED
1000 Islands Wine and Food Festival
Municipal Significance

Councillor Lavergne left the meeting and did not vote on the matter.
Moved by: Councillor Deery

‘THAT Council approve the request from Nathalie Lavergne of Double
Concept Productions to declare "The 1000 Islands Wine and Food Festival”
held at the Rotary Park, September 21st, 2024, to be an event of
*Municipal Significance" for the purpose of the issuance of Special Occasion
Permit required by the Alcohol and Gaming Commission of Ontario
(AGCO), subject to all necessary permits and approvals being obtained and
in compliance with all City of Brockville By-laws.

CARRIED

Councillor Lavergne returned to the meeting.

Museum Month
Brockville Museum Advisory Committee

Moved by: Councillor Hobbs

Page 3 of 7

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, April 9, 2024

THAT the Council of the Corporation of the City of Brockville hereby
proclaim the Month of May 2024 as Museum Month in the City of
Brockville.

CARRIED

Delegations
Nil.

Staff Reports
2024-69

2023-2026 Strategic Plan
Executive Summary

Moved by: Councillor Lavergne
THAT the priorities identified in the 2023-2026 Strategic Plan be adopted.

For: Mayor Wren, Councillor Dery, Councillor Earle, Councillor
Fullarton, Councillor Hobbs, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor
Lavergne, and Councillor Wales
CARRIED 8-0 on a recorded vote

2024-74
Housing-Enabling Water Systems Fund Application

Moved by: Councillor Fullarton

THAT Council approve a joint application to be submitted in collaboration
with the Township of Elizabethtown-Kitley to the Province for the Housing-
Enabling Water Systems (HEWS) Fund prior to the April 19, 2024,
deadline; and

THAT Council approve the recommended project to improve City water and
wastewater assets and for the extension of water and wastewater services
to the north-east boundary of the city including a portion to extend into
the Township of Elizabethtown-Kitley

For: Mayor Wren, Councillor Deery, Councillor Earle, Councillor

Fullarton, Councillor Hobbs, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor
Lavergne, and Councillor Wales
CARRIED 8-0 on a recorded vote

Page 4 of 7

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, April 9, 2024

Planning and Development Committee

Councillor M. Kalivas, Chair
Councillors J. Earle, N. Lavergne, and C. Wales, Citizen Member A. Koolwine
Meeting held April 2, 2024

ppc -

Nil.

ppc -

Consent Agenda

Regular Agenda

2024-40
Zoning By-law Amendment, 86 John Street

Moved by: Councillor Wales

THAT Zoning By-law 050-2014 be amended for lands described as Part of
Lot 13, Block 35, Plan 67, City of Brockville, municipally known as 86 John
Street, to rezone the lands from "R4-General Residential" Zone, subject
to "Source Water Protection” considerations to "R4-General Residential
Special Exception Zone", subject to "Source Water Protection"
considerations.

THAT the necessary by-laws, be enacted.
REFERRED ON A LATER VOTE.

Committee discussed the possibility of implementing temporary zoning. As the
Planner was absent, the item was referred to staff to bring forward additional
information to the April 23rd meeting of Council.

Motion to Refer

For:

Page 5 of 7

Moved by: Councillor Kalivas

THAT the matter be referred to the Council meeting of April 23rd pending
additional information from staff regarding the possibility of implementing
temporary zoning on the co-living maisonette portion of the proposed
development.

Mayor Wren, Councillor Dery, Councillor Earle, Councillor

Fullarton, Councillor Hobbs, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor

Lavergne, and Councillor Wales

CARRIED 8-0 on a recorded vote

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, April 9, 2024

New Business - Report from Members of Council
Nil.

Unfinished Business
Nil.

Emergency Business
Nil.

By-Laws

025-2024
By-Law to Authorize the Temporary Borrowing of $6,000,000 as may be
required

026-2024

A By-law to Levy $43,618,442 and Impose Municipal and Education Rates
for the Year 2024 and to Authorize the Levying Thereof

027-2024

A By-Law to impose Special Purpose Rates for the year 2024 and to
authorize the levying thereof for the Downtown Board Improvement
Association (DBIA)

028-2024

By-law to Set Tax Ratios for the City of Brockville for the Year 2024

Reading of the By-Laws

Moved by: Councillor Fullarton
Seconded by: Councillor Dery

THAT By-laws Numbered 025-2024 to 028-2024 be introduced and the same be
now read a first, second and third time, signed by the Mayor and Clerk, sealed
with the Seal of the Corporation and be recorded.

CARRIED

Confirmatory By-Law

Moved by: Councillor Fullarton
THAT By-law Number 029-2024 to confirm the Proceedings of Council at its
meeting held on April 9, 2024 be read a first, second and third time, signed by

the Mayor and Clerk, sealed with the Seal of the Corporation and be recorded.
CARRIED

Page 6 of 7

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, April 9, 2024

Mayor's Announcements
Media Question Period
Adjournment

Moved by: Councillor Fullarton
Seconded by: Councillor Dery

THAT Council adjourn its proceedings until the next regular meeting scheduled
for April 23, 2024.
CARRIED

The meeting adjourned at 6:46pm.

Mayor City Clerk

Page 7 of 7

