City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes

5:30 PM - Thursday, January 11, 2024
City Hall, Council Chambers

‘The Council meeting was called to order on Thursday, January 11, 2024, at 5:30
pm, in the City Hall, Council Chambers, with the following present:

Mayor Matt Wren, Councillor Philip Dery, Councillor Jeff
Earle, Councillor Jane Fullarton, Councillor Katherine Hobbs,
Councillor Mike Kalivas, Councillor Nathalie Lavergne,
Councillor Louise Severson, and Councillor Cameron Wales

Nil.

Staff: Sheena Earl, City Clerk, Lynda Ferguson, Director of Finance
&IT Services, Melanie Jones, Director of Fire & Partner
Services, Robert Nolan, Director of Economic and
Development Services, Mark Noonan, Police Chief, Lynn
Murray, Deputy City Clerk, Adam Parker, IT Analyst, Chris
Paul, Deputy Fire Chief, Peter Raabe, Director of
Engineering & Infrastructure Services, and Phil Wood,
Director of Operations

Land Acknowledgement Statement

Mayor's Remarks

Mayor Wren thanked members and staff for their flexibility in accommodating the
meeting date change and noted Councillor Earle would likely be joining shortly.

Mayor Wren wished everyone a Happy New Year. He thanked those who attended
the New Year's Day levy at the Brockville Art's Centre and referred to the New
Year's Eve concert series, thanking all for their involvement and attendance and
offered his appreciation to the congregations of Wall Street United, the First
Baptist, St. Paul's and St. John's churches for opening their beautiful buildings to
host the event.

Mayor Wren thanked staff for their continued efforts producing the River of Lights
noting it has been extended to January 7th. He said visitor statistics for this event
are being collected and noted appreciation for the provincial grant in support.

Mayor Wren drew member's attention to a new camera in Council Chambers and

asked that any feedback with respect to the livestream be sent to the City Clerk by
email at clerk@brockville.com.

Page 1 of 6

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Thursday, January 11, 2024

With respect to Paratransit, Mayor Wren noted reports of a smooth transition to in-
house operations thanks to staff. He commented on positive reviews from users
and noted 195 rides had been successfully completed already this year. Mayor
Wren said initial confusion about the correct phone number has been clarified and
encouraged users and their families to continue to provide feedback.

Mayor Wren welcomed Kelly Britnell, Tourism Development Coordinator to the
City. He said Ms. Britnell has previous work experience with Explore Waterloo,
Queen's University and Tourism Kingston. Mayor Wren explained that the current
contract with Henderson's printing for promotional materials will be extended to
prevent any disruption and noted the City will continue to explore the use of
private services and expertise with respect to tourism when needed.

Mayor Wren reported Council discussed a possible partnership with supportive
housing provider Indwell at the closed meeting of December 12, 2023. and noted
it would be explored further at the closed meeting of January 23, 2024. He drew
attention to a recent presentation by Indwell at the Joint Services Committee
meeting earlier this week, a recording of which can be found at leedsgrenville.ca.
Mayor Wren noted the importance of all levels of government working together to
address the complex homelessness issues.

Mayor Wren announced the Supreme Court of Canada has dismissed the Tall Ships
Landing Development's appeal of a lower court decision in the City's favour,
ending a years-long dispute over the construction of the Aquatarium.

Disclosure of Interest
Nil.

Adoption of Council Minutes
Moved by: Councillor Kalivas
THAT the minutes of the Council Meeting of December 12, 2023 be
adopted and circulated as read
CARRIED

Correspondence, Communication and Petitions

1. Appointments to Boards and Committees
(BMAAC/Arena)

Page 2 of 6

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Thursday, January 11, 2024

Moved by: Councillor Lavergne

THAT Council authorize the appointment of Aubyn Baker-Riley to the

Brockville Municipal Accessibility Advisory Committee (term to expire
November 14, 2027); and

THAT Council appoint John Francis to the Arena Advisory Board (term to
expire on November 30, 2027); and

THAT the necessary by-law be enacted.
CARRIED

Delegations
Nil.

Staff Reports
Nil.

Planning And Development Committee
Nil.

Councillor Earle arrived at 5:51 pm.

Budget

2024-7
2024 Budget
City Departments Capital and Update on Community Partners

Moved by: Councillor Wales
THAT Council receive report SR2024-7 for information.

For: Mayor Wren, Councillor Dery, Councillor Earle, Councillor

Fullarton, Councillor Hobbs, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor

Lavergne, Councillor Severson, and Councillor Wales
CARRIED 9-0 on a recorded vote

Page 3 of 6

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Thursday, January 11, 2024

Moved by: Councillor Kalivas

‘That Council include a contribution of $6,500 to the Frontenac Arch Biosphere in
the 2024 Draft Budget.

For: Mayor Wren, Councillor Dery, Councillor Earle, Councillor
Fullarton, Councillor Hobbs, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor
Lavergne, Councillor Severson, and Councillor Wales
CARRIED 9-0 on a recorded vote

Moved by: Councillor Wales
‘That Council include a contribution of $10,000 to the ArtsHub in 2024 Draft Budget
to the ArtsHub.

WITHDRAWN

Council decided to consider discretionary and non-discretionary community partner
budget items later in the Budget deliberations process.

The Couneil recessed at 7:20 pm and resumed at 7:37 pm. Ms. Murray, Mr.
Parker, Chief Noonan, Chief Jones and Deputy Chief Paul left the meeting.

NEW BUSINESS - REPORT FROM MEMBERS OF COUNCIL

1. Motion to Amend Something Previously Adopted
Council Minutes November 28, 2023
(Councillor K. Hobbs)

(Requires simple majority vote)

Moved by: Councillor Hobbs
THAT the Council meeting minutes of November 28, 2023 be amended to
mark K. Hobbs as absent from the meeting.

CARRIED

Unfinished Business
Nil.

Emergency Business
Nil.

Page 4 of 6

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Thursday, January 11, 2024

By-laws

001-2024
A By-law to amend 003-2023 Being a By-law to Appoint Members to
Various Boards and Commissions (Arena/Aquatarium)

Reading of the By-laws

Moved by: Councillor Severson
Seconded by: Councillor Wales

THAT By-law Numbered 001-2024 be introduced and the same be now
read a first, second and third time, signed by the Mayor and Clerk, sealed
with the Seal of the Corporation and be recorded.

CARRIED

Confirmatory By-law

Moved by: Councillor Severson
Seconded by: Councillor Wales

THAT By-law Number 002-2024 to confirm the Proceedings of Council at its
meeting held on January 11, 2024 be read a first, second and third time,
signed by the Mayor and Clerk, sealed with the Seal of the Corporation and
be recorded.

CARRIED
Mayor's Announcements

Media Question Period

Page 5 of 6

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Thursday, January 11, 2024

Adjournment

Moved by: Councillor Severson
Seconded by: Councillor Wales

THAT Council adjourn its proceedings until the next regular meeting
scheduled for January 23, 2024.
CARRIED

The meeting adjourned at 9:22 pm.

Mayor City Clerk

Page 6 of 6

