City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes

5:30 PM - Tuesday, November 12, 2024
City Hall, Council Chambers

‘The Council meeting was called to order on Tuesday, November 12, 2024, at 5:30
PM, in the City Hall, Council Chambers, with the following present:

Mayor Matt Wren, Councillor Philip Dery, Councillor Jane
Fullarton, Councillor Katherine Hobbs, Councillor Mike
Kalivas, Councillor Nathalie Lavergne, Councillor Louise
Severson, and Councillor Cameron Wales

Councillor Jeff Earle

Sandra MacDonald, City Manager, Phil Wood, Director of
Operations and Sheena Earl, City Clerk

Land Acknowledgement Statement

Mayor's Remarks

Mayor Wren offered regrets from Councillor Earle and noted Councillor Deery is
attending virtually. He welcomed MPP Steve Clark and Executive Assistant Michael
Jiggins who were present in the gallery along with G. Smitherman and S. Fournier
Hudson.

Mayor Wren congratulated Councillor Kalivas who is a first time grandfather to
grandson Michael, born recently.

His Worship expressed sincere appreciation to the Brockville Legion for providing
and participating in a very respectful Remembrance Day service, commenting on
the large crowds and coverage on CTV Ottawa. He thanked the Brockville Rifles,
the Air Force Association, emergency responders and representatives from many
community organizations for their presence at the event.

Mayor Wren announced this Saturday, the Brockville Downtown Business
Improvement Association (DBIA) will be hosting Miracle on King Street, a shop the
street event with the Santa Clause parade to follow at 4:30 pm

He announced the annual River of Lights show will begin on Saturday, November
30 and run through to January on Blockhouse Island.

Mayor Wren reminded residents of leaf pickup next week on regular collection days
and noted the compost site remains open until November 29.

Page 1 of 7

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, November 12, 2024

His Worship provided an update on the development occurring at the site of the
former Prince of Wales school which is currently being demolished and repurposed
for housing. He acknowledged the emotions this generates as many residents have
personal memories of attending or having their children attend this school. Mayor
Wren summarized that the property was declared surplus by the Upper Canada
District School Board several years ago through part of a public process. He said
while the original proposal was to redevelop the school, the local Conservation
Authority raised concerns due to the location on the flood plane of Butler Creek.
Mayor Wren explained the developer chose to develop a different location on the
property rather than proceed with a lengthy and costly appeal. He noted this
change did not require the developer to return to Council, as the building was not
designated under the Heritage Act and site plan control is approved by staff.

Disclosure of Interest
Nil.

Adoption of Council Minutes
Moved by: Councillor Hobbs
THAT the minutes of the Council Meeting of October 22, 2024 be adopted and

circulated as read.
CARRIED

Correspondence, Communication and Petitions

1

Appointments to Boards and Committees (TSFC)

Moved by: Councillor Severson
THAT Brian Burns be removed from the Tall Ships Festival Committee; and

THAT the necessary by-law be enacted.
CARRIED

Woman Abuse Prevention Month
(Leeds and Grenville Interval House)

Moved by: Councillor Deery

THAT Council hereby proclaim November as Woman Abuse Prevention
Month; and

Page 2 of 7

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, November 12, 2024

THAT the Leeds and Grenville Interval House flag be flown at Tunnel Bay
from November 25th to December 11th in recognition of the 16 days of
Activism against Gender-Based Violence.

CARRIED

2025 Meeting Calendar

Moved by: Councillor Lavergne
THAT Council approve the 2025 schedule of Council and Standing
Committee meetings as presented.

CARRIED

Delegations and Presentations

George Smitherman and Sherri Fournier Hudson, Health Workforce
Innovations Inc. re: Physician Recruitment and Health Human Resources

G. Smitherman and S. Fournier spoke to Council about Physician
Recruitment and Health Human Resources in Leeds and Grenville.

Moved by: Councillor Fullarton

‘THAT Council directs the Mayor and the City Manager to signal the City's
interest in participating in discussions related to regional physician
recruitment with the United Counties of Leeds and Grenville, the Town of
Gananoque and the Town of Prescott; and

THAT staff be directed to provide assistance in drafting a Memorandum of
Understanding with respect to funding, key deliverables and other key
elements of a physician care recruitment strategy for consideration.

For: Mayor Wren, Councillor Dery, Councillor Fullarton, Councillor
Hobbs, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor Lavergne, Councillor
Severson, and Councillor Wales
CARRIED 8-0 on a recorded vote

The meeting recessed at 6:59 pm and resumed at 7:12 pm.

Page 3 of 7

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, November 12, 2024

Staff Reports

2024-193
Procedural By-law Update

Moved by: Councillor Lavergne

THAT Council adopt a By-law to Govern the Proceedings of Council and
Committees, effective January 1, 2025; and

THAT By-law No. 113-80 be repealed.

For: Mayor Wren, Councillor Dery, Councillor Fullarton, Councillor
Hobbs, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor Lavergne, Councillor
Severson, and Councillor Wales
CARRIED 8-0 on a recorded vote

Planning and Development Committee

Councillor M. Kalivas, Chair
Councillors J. Earle, N. Lavergne, and C. Wales, Citizen Member A.
Koolwine

Meeting held November 5, 2024

PDC - Consent Agenda
Moved by: Councillor Kalivas

THAT the following items, as listed on the Planning and Development
Committee agenda are recommended to be passed by Consent Agenda:

For: Mayor Wren, Councillor Dery, Councillor Fullarton, Councillor
Hobbs, Councillor Kalivas, Councillor Lavergne, Councillor
Severson, and Councillor Wales
CARRIED 8-0 on a recorded vote

2024-186
Proposed Amendments to Zoning By-law 050-2014
2360 Parkedale Avenue

THAT Zoning By-law 050-2014 be amended to rezone lands described as
Part of Lots 11 and 12, Concession 2, City of Brockville municipally known
Page 4 of 7

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, November 12, 2024

as 2360 Parkedale Avenue, from "C3 - General Commercial Zone” to "T-C3
- General Commercial Temporary Use Zone” to permit a Refreshment
Vehicle as a permitted use for a three (3) year period.

THAT the necessary by-law be enacted.

2024-192
Development Charge By-law 012-2020

THAT By-law 012-2020 Being a Bylaw to Establish Development Charges
be amended to repeal Section 20.(1) which specifies that By-law 012-
2020, will expire on January 14, 2025.

PDC - Regular Agenda
Nil.

New Business ~ Report from Members of Council

Update from the Arena Advisory Committee - Councillor Severson

Councillor Severson provided a brief update on matters arising from the
recent Arena Advisory Committee meeting.

Unfinished Business
Nil.

Emergency Business
Nil.

By-Laws
1. 076-2024
A By-law to Amend By-law 003-2023 Being a By-law to Appoint Members
to Various Boards and Commissions (TSFC)

2. 077-2024

A By-law to Amend City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014, 2360
Parkedale Avenue

078-2024

A By-law to Amend By-law 012-202 Being a By-law to Establish
Development Charges

079-2024

A By-law to Govern the Proceedings of Council and Committees

Page 5 of 7

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, November 12, 2024

080-2024
A By-law to Authorize the Appointment of Municipal Law Enforcement
Officers and Peace Officers as it Applies to the Private Property of 15 Buell
Street

081-2024
A By-law to Delegate Authority to the Assessment Review Board to
Exercise Certain Powers and Functions of Council Pursuant to Section
357(1) (d-1) of the Municipal Act, 2001.

Reading of the By-Laws

Moved by: Councillor Fullarton
Seconded by: Councillor Wales

THAT By-laws Numbered 076-2024 to 081-2024 be introduced and the same be
now read a first, second and third time, signed by the Mayor and Clerk, sealed
with the Seal of the Corporation and be recorded.

CARRIED

Mayor's Announcements
Nil.

Media Question Period

Motion to Move into Closed Session (Immediately Following the Regular
Meeting)

Moved by: Councillor Fullarton

THAT pursuant to Municipal Act, 2001, Section 239 Sub. 2 (insert letter), Council
resolve itself Closed Session at 7:30 p.m., closed to the public to consider: 1. (k)
a position, plan, procedure, criteria or instruction to be applied to any
negotiations carried on or to be carried on by or on behalf of the municipality or
local board, specifically Memorial Centre Commercial Space; and 2. (c) a
proposed or pending acquisition or disposition of land

CARRIED

Closed Meeting Matters

Page 6 of 7

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, November 12, 2024

Motion to Adjourn Closed Session
Moved by: Councillor Hobbs

THAT the Closed Meeting of Council adjourn and the Open Session resume at
0 p.m.

CARRIED
Report of the Closed Session

Council met in Closed Session to review matters pertaining to a position, plan,
procedure, criteria or instruction to be applied to any negotiations carried on or to
be carried on by or on behalf of the municipality or local board, specifically
Memorial Centre Commercial Space; and 2. a proposed or pending acquisition or
disposition of land and provided instruction/direction to staff.

Confirmatory By-Law

Moved by: Councillor Severson
Seconded by: Councillor Deery

THAT By-law Number 082-2024 to confirm the Proceedings of Council at its
meeting held on November 12, 2024 be read a first, second and third time,
signed by the Mayor and Clerk, sealed with the Seal of the Corporation and be
recorded.

CARRIED

Adjournment

Moved by: Councillor Severson
Seconded by: Councillor Deery

THAT Council adjourn its proceedings until the next regular meeting scheduled
for November 26, 2024.
CARRIED

The meeting adjourned at 8:21 pm.

Mayor City Clerk

Page 7 of 7

