[a

Page 1 of 6

BROCKVILLE Council Meeting
BROCKVILLE Monday, Febery 14,2011, 20 pe
Council Minutes City Hall, Council Chambers
oll Call

‘Council Members:
Mayor D. Henderson
Councilor J. Baker
Councillor D. Beatty
Councilor L. Bursey
Councilor J. Earle
Councilor J. Fullarton
Councilor L:F. Journal
Councillor D. LeSueur
Councillor MJ. McFall

Absent:
Councilor M. Kalivas

Statt:
Ms. T. Caskenette, Executive Assistant

Mr. B. Casselman, City Manager (arrived 5:50)

Ms. D. Cyr, Director of Finance

Mr. S. Fraser, Inspector

Mr. A. Geraghty, Chief of Police

Ms. D. Gordon, Financial Analyst ~ General

Ms. V. Harvey, Supervisor of Transportation Services

Mr. H. Jones, Fire Chief

Mr. L. MacArthur Deputy Police Chief

Ms. L. Murray, Administrative Coordinator (Recording Secretary)
Ms. S. Seale, City Clerk

Ms. L. White, Manager of Strategic Initiatives,

Others:

Ron Zajac, Recorder and Times

‘The Mayor called the meeting to order (5:30 pm.)

Page 2 of 6

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes ~ Monday, February 14, 2011 Page 2

MAYOR'S REMARKS
i

DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST

i

MOTION TO MOVE INTO THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE COUNCIL

Moved by: Councillor Baker
Seconded by: Councillor LeSueur

THAT we adjourn and meet as Committee of the Whole Council, with the Mayor in the
Chair.

CARRIED
DELEGATIONS

BOARDS & COMMITTEES
BUDGET CONSIDERATIONS

Brockville Police Department

Chief Geraghty, Deputy Chief L. MacArthur, Inspector S. Fraser and Ms. T. Caskenette,
Executive Assistant to the Chief were in attendance to represent the Brockville Police
Department.

Chief Geraghty reviewed the police budget for the Committee. He explained that the
proposed 7.6% budget increase is driven by a number of factors such as; contractual
‘commitments, adequacy standards and staffing issues.

Councilor Baker questioned the increased revenue in Criminal Record Checks. Chief
Geraghty responded that for 2011 they are back on track, but added that the RCMP
could be adding more criterions.

Councilor Baker asked if they could see a comparison of the level of revenue over the
last 3 years,
* Action item - AG

Councillor Earle wondered why the department's salaries keep going up so much, if the
population hasn't really increased over the last number of years.

Page 3 of 6

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes ~ Monday, February 14, 2011 Page 3

Chief Geraghty explained that most of the increase is attributed to investigations and
the standards surrounding them. He added that in the last few years with the service
centres on the 401 being closed this has increased the traffic coming in off the 401 for
fuel and meals.

Mayor Henderson added that when searching for comparator municipalities, itis hard to
find a good fit of urban and rural. He reminded Council that Brockville is mostly urban
and due to the density of population in urban areas they cost mare to police.

Airport

Ms. V. Harvey, Supervisor of Transportation Services, Bob Huskinson, Hannelore
Walther and Dean Glover were in attendance to represent the Airport Commission.

Mr. Bob Huskinson presented the budget to Council
Museum

Brian Porter, Board Chairperson Jean Ouellet, and Doug Smith Friends of the Museum
Executives, Amy Whitehome, Museum Educator and Cathy Bigalow, Clerk Typist and
Viktor Kaczkowski, Volunteer Coordinator were in attendance representing the
‘Museum,

Mr. Brian Porter explained that Ms. Bonnie Burke, Museum Curator could not be in
attendance. He explained that he would be introducing the budget this evening along
with other board members and staff

Ms. Whitehorne clarified reasons for the increase in revenues; since her position is now
{ull ime she attends local nursing homes on a regular weekly schedule. In addition the
attendance in the education area is higher than last year because the schools are
returning. Programming was reduced in 2009 and 2010 due to the reduced schoo!
participation caused by the H1N1 outbreak.

‘Councillor Mc Fall asked what the “Friends of the Museums' relationship was to the
Museum. Mr. Porter replied that on top of many things they are the fundraising arm
(mostly capital) of the Museum.

Page 4 of 6

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes ~ Monday, February 14, 2011 Page 4

Cataraqui Region Conservation Authority (CRCA)

Karla Maki-Esdon, Acting General Manager, Board Members and Council
appointeesColin Boag and John Bonser were in attendance representing the CRCA.

Ms. Karla Maki-Esdon presented the CRCA's budget to Council
Councilor Journal noticed that over the last 4 years there has been a 50% increase in
the CRCA's budget. He expressed his frustration over these boards which just keep
requiring more money that we have no control over.
Ms. Maki-Esdon explained that this is a draft budget, but cautioned Council on reducing
the special levy, as it specifically funds the maintenance of three structures in the city
that contra flooding,
Councillor Journal requested details on the uses proposed for the Special Levy.

4 Action item - KME
Library

‘Margaret Wicklum, Board Chair introduced a number of Library staff and Board
‘Members who were in attendance representing the Library.

Ms, Margaret Wicklum provided an overview of the Library's budget.

A copy of the material distributed at the meeting is attached to the minutes.

Cemetery

Mike Larocque Board Secretary/Treasurer, Doug Grant Board Vice Chair, Paul
Cosgrove, Brian Porter and Herb Sheridan all of the Cemetery Board were in
attendance.

Mr. Doug Grant reviewed the highlights of the Cemetery's Budget for Council
Mr. Mike Larocque, Secretary/Treasurer of the Library Board provided financial details.
Mr. Larocque was asked to provide details on the drastic increases over the last couple
of years. He explained that aver the last couple of years they have had to reduce the

contributions from the trust funds for two reasons: the dip in interest rates has reduced
the interest income, and in the past they have been too aggressive in their annual

Page 5 of 6

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes ~ Monday, February 14, 2011 Page 5

withdrawals therefore draining the account. In addition the costs to run the Cemetery
continue to increase.

Councilor Fullarton asked it he ever sees their budget getting back down, or are we
Selting @ new base line for this budget. Mr. Larocque felt that this would likely be the
new base line for their budget.

A discussion ensued surrounding the feasibility of selling the cemetery. Councillor Baker
‘asked for a short report on the pros and cons of selling the cemetery.

* Action ite

— CML

A copy of the material distributed at the meeting is attached to the minutes.

MOTION TO RETURN TO COUNCIL
Moved by: Couneilor Baker
THAT we revert from Committee ofthe Whole Council, to Counel

CARRIED
[ADOPTION OF REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE COUNCIL
Moved by: Councillor Baker
Seconded by: Councilor Fullarton

‘THAT the report of the Committee of the Whole Council is adopted and that the
necessary actions or by-laws be enacted,

CARRIED
CONFIRMATORY BYLAW FIRST AND SECOND READING

Moved by: Councillor Earle

Seconded by: Councilor Journal

‘THAT By-law Number 014-2011 to confirm the Proceedings of Council at its meeting
held on February 14, 2011 be read and first and second time.

CARRIED

Page 6 of 6

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes ~ Monday, February 14, 2011 Page 6

CONFIRMATORY BYLAW THIRD READING
Moved by: Councillor Earle
Seconded by: Councilor Journal
THAT By-law Number 014-2011 to confirm the Proceedings of Council at its meeting
held on February 14, 2011 be now a read a third time, signed by the Mayor and Clerk,
‘sealed with the Seal of the Corporation and be recorded.

CARRIED
ADJOURNMENT
Moved by: Councillor LeSueur
Seconded by: Councillor Bursey

THAT Council adjourn its proceedings until the next regular meeting scheduled for
February 22, 2011

CARRIED

‘The meeting adjourned at 8:40 p.m,

Mayor Gily Clerk

