ral Public Meeting
BROCKVILLE Economic Development &

‘Ei OF THE 1000 ISLANDS Plani

Tuesday, November 01, 2016,
COMMITTEE MINUTES City Hall, Council Chambers:

‘Committee Members:
Councillor P. Dery, Chair
Councillor M. Kalivas

Councillor D. LeSueur

Mayor D. Henderson, Ex-Officio

Regrets:
Councillor L. Bursey

Stal
Mr. B. Casselman, City Manager

Ms. S. MacDonald, City Clerk (Recording Secretary)
Mr. A. McGinnis, Planner IT

Ms. M. Pascoe Merkley, Director of Planning

‘The Chair called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
TEM

1. 2016-140-11
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014
North West Corner King St. W. and Clarissa St., City of Brockville,
Owner: McKercher Holdings Limited
Agent: Michael Brewer

Moved by: Councillor Kalivas
THAT Report 2016-140-11 be received as information and that a report on
this matter be prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic
Development Planning Committee at a future meeting.

CARRIED
Councillor Dery, Chair, introduced the public meeting and read from the
prepared required comments.

Page 1 of 2

Economic Development and Planning Committee Public Meeting Minutes
Tuesday, November 01, 2016

Mr. McGinnis announced that notice of the Public Meeting was advertised in
the Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper on October 6, 2016 and was
circulated to property owners within 120.0 metres (400.0 feet) of the
subject property. In addition, signs were posted on the subject property
advising that the lands are the subject of an Application for Amendment to
the City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014.

Councillor Dery, Chair, asked that any person wanting further notice of the
passage of the proposed amendment should give their full name, address
and postal code to the Secretary prior to leaving the meeting,

Councillor Deery reviewed the procedures for the Public Meeting.
Mr. McGinnis provided an overview of the proposed zoning amendment.
Mr. Steve Brewer representing the Applicant was in attendance and
requested that the approval of the requested temporary zone. There was

discussion regarding signage, landscaping with planters, and screening of
waste receptacles. This staff report will address these issues.

‘No persons requested notice.

‘The meeting adjourned at 6:11 pm.

Page 2 of 2

