BROCKVILLE
Official plan

i we ECONOMIC
: DEVELOPMENT
STRATEGY

ADOPTED BY COUNCIL, MARCH 23, 2010



Most Communities are Unique -a combination of:

+ Geographic postoning
+ Landscape
+ Natural resource

diferent


@ INTRODUCTION 1

1.1. Brockville Official Plan Project ~
Overview

1.2 Foundations 3

13. Strategies 5

1.4. Integrated Community Sustain-
ability Plan 6

1.5. Public Consultation 7

1.6 The Process Used in the econom-
icdevelopment strategy 10

1.7 Community Values & the Socio-
economic Development Mission
Statement 10

18 1"
1.9. Integ it
With the ICsP 1"
@ THE ECONOMIC
BACKDROP 13
24
1B
22
16
23
Occupation Trends 18
@ RECOMMENDED
STRATEGIES 23

3.1. Retention and Expansion of Ex-
isting Businesses 23


3.2. Business Attraction
3.3. Tourism Industry Expansion
3.4 Entrepreneur Attrai
3.5. Entrepreneur Development

3.6 Workforce Development

3.7 Hierarchy of Education and
Skills and Development.
Needs

3.8 Preventive Education and
Skills Development

3.9 Sustainability Goals
and Targets

@ THE ECONOMIC
INVESTMENT ACTION
PLAN
4.1. Specific Activities for Econor

Development
42. Bringing Forward Opportun
‘on an Ongoing Basis

42 ‘Champions’ a2
43. Making the Case for
Investment a2
44. The Economic Investment.
‘Action Case (EIAC) 45
@ OTHER
RECOMMENDATIONS — 47
5.1 Leadership for Success 47
5.2 Partnering 48

35

5.3 Business-Friendly is Not
Just Important, Itis Vital 50

5.4 Research into the
‘New Economy’ 50

5.5 Communicating with Youth 50
50

Positive Support is Essential
from all City Departments 51

5.8 Ongoing Community Input 52
jc Data and Research 52

Building 53

5.13 The Jurisdictional cost competi-
tiveness challenge 54

5.14 Plan, but don'toverplan 55

5.15 Creation of an Investment
Business Case to ‘prove the
propaganda’ 55

5.16 Inertia may mask problems 56

5.17 Communicating What is

Happening in Economi
Development 57

© CONCLUSION 59
@ SEPARATE SUPPORTING

DOCUMENTS 61

ntents| Adopted by Counc, March 23, 2010 | &


(1) INTRODUCTION

‘The City of Brockville is inthe process of preparing
a new Official Plan. An Official Panis a statutory
‘document which sets out the land use policy direction
for long-term growth and development in the City of
Brocklle for the next 20 years. In addition to direction
from the Ciys Community Strategy Plan to prepare a
new Official Pan, the existing Plan is over 20 years ol,
which exceed is defined planning horizon. As such,
the City intated the process to create anew Pan, To
inform poly in the new Plan, thee stratagies have
been prepared

» Land Use and Grawth Management Strategy

+ Downtown and Waterfront Master Plan and Urban

Design strategy, and
» Economic Development Strategy

Concurrent with the Oficial Plan, the City is aso
undertaking an Integrated Corsmunity Sustainability
Pian (ISP), which wil direct policy by estabshing a
set of sustainability goals and targets. These goals and
targets wil ensure overall interaction between the
three strategies, the Community Strategic Plan adonted
in Apel of 2009, other municipal pans, strategies

‘and documents, and with the City’s decison-making
proces. The process to develop the ICSPs ongoing
and has progressed towards a Discussion Paper on
Integrated Community Sustainability,

{spar of the development of the new Official
Pian, the City of Brockyile has created an ongoing
Socioeconomic Development Mission to maintain and
achieve economic prosperity within the Community
The word socio is a reminder thatthe economy isnot
an end in itself but a means to an end: the wel-being
ofthe Community, naw and into the future. Ecanomic
Development is crucial ool in the development of a
prosperous local economy, and in the expansion of a
verse tax base for the municipality. Global, national,
and local economic changes are occuring at a rap
pace and Brocklle must at now in order to bein the
best pasbe postion forthe future. This means taking
advantage of the opportunities ofthe future as well as,
weathering the challenges ofthe present

Economie Development Strategy | Intiaduction | Adapted by Councl, March 23, 2010 | 4


1.1 BROCKVILLE
OFFICIAL PLAN
PROJECT - OVERVIEW

‘The City of Brockile and its 22,900 residents (Watson
4 Associates, 2009) have nated the process to create
‘2 new Official Plan. Ths new Official Plan is intended
tw guide and use and development fora 20-year time
hotizon beginning tothe year 2031

‘The City of Brckvile Official Pan program presents
an exciting opportunity for Counc, City staff, and

the community tobe involved in shaping their own
future by helping to guide the planning foundation and
direction of the City forthe next 20 years. The Official
Pian project isin response to the evolving Provincial
poy intiatves such asthe Provincial Poy Statement
and amendments tothe Planning Act, detailed in the
Land Use & Growth Management Strategy.

‘The development ofthe Official Plan requires speci
analysand consultation to determine the most
effective polices to qude change aver the next 20 years,
‘The Official Pan projects ergaized into thee phases
Figure 1. Phase |mvalies a comprehensive approach

by preparing several key tudes denoted above which
will provide the Foundation for the new Official Plan
Phase ofthe project wil integrate the resis of Phase
leading tothe preparation ofthe Land Use and Growth
Management Study. Phase i wilimtegrate results frm
Phases and, culminating inthe preparation ofthe
Official Plan. The Offical lan is expected tobe ready for
adoption by City Caunel in late springer summer of
2010 and wil then be forwarded tothe Ontario Minister
‘of Muriel Affars and Housing fr approval

‘The focus ofthe projects to establish a strategy forthe
management of change inthe City of freckle. The
primary objectives inde:

* Identify opportunities for growth in the City,

» Incorporate polices into the new Official lan that
_ate clear, environmentally progressive, and promote
{sustainable and healthy community,

» Evaluate employment lands with the view to
‘accommadste growth and respond to emerging
‘employment trends

» Maintain an appropriate balance of residential to
non-residential land uses

Conform to provincial intatives, particularly the
Provincial Plc Statement

Establish, a framework for urban design guidelines
and architectural contol poles, and incorporate
an urban design plan forthe downtown and
Waterront ares

Enhance poles to support cultural and but
heritage,

Incorporate palces which focus on the pub use
‘ofthe waterfront and expansion ofthe parks, rai
and open space systems;

Build on efforts to revitalize the community, such as
the Community improvement Plans;

“Make provisions in the Offical lan to address
recent amendments to the laning Act

including matters such as complete applications
requirements, evelopment permit systems, public
meeting requirements, et; and

Establish a framework fora socio-economic
‘evelopment mission and strategies which will
provide recommendations related to land use and
evelopment

1.2 FOUNDATIONS

‘As identified in Figure 1, the rst phase ofthe Offical
Pan Project provided the technical background and the
development of emerging planning themes as shown in
Figute 2. The second phase involved the dew

in the new Offical Plan and Integrate
‘Sustainability Plan tobe completed inthe final phase.

Figure 1 | Official Plan Project Process

Economie Development Strategy | Introduction | Adopt

“The Foundation Report, adopted by
thera set of

June 23, 2008, brought
commendation t
ofthe detailed strategies. The recommendations were
based on int receved from Counc, the community
and City staff These strategies, wil asst in developing

policy inthe new Official lan

Ocober 2008
‘April 2008 roe ie Deentown and
‘August 2009 (atc oroaete
june 2010 Opportunities for ly pil 2010 ren

2010 | 8

Figure 2 | Emerging Planning Themes

emerging commanity planning themes


1.3 STRATEGIES

The 0 : Master Pan and ge ee ave characterize a

The Economie Development State 1.3.2 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

This Land Use and Gro agement Stateg STRATEGY
1 descbed in Figure 3. a eye on prose sontmie Developme

1 Offical Plan. Defined by the key values
1.3.1 DOWNTOWN & WATERFRONT 1 Sode- sion ¢
MASTER PLAN & URBAN DESIGN long-e economic devel
STRATEGY ensure tal imes, compati ese value
Feb ategesis es i
9 eritage significance. The Stateg

Figure 3 | Planning Strategies

Economic Development


‘TAINABILITY PLAN

1.3.3 LAND USE & GROWTH The Community Sustainabilty Strategy prepared in th
MANAGEMENT STRATEGY Foundation Report recommended that "the City coula

This Land Use and Gro gement Strate support principles of sustainability, consider long-term

LUBGMS) buds on the recommendations reeds and impacts of decision making, and ensure that
the Foundation Report and identifies recommended Planning is holistic asa result of integrated decision
planning poly drectons and a stuctue for growth and Taking and goa setting by undertaking an Integrated
development forthe City of Broce ks developed Community Sustanabilty Pan

on the bass ofa local contextall-approprat Integrated Community Sustainability Pans
oprection of Provincial planning poy. Ths Report nego yet

2 provides recommendations regarding growth, Tene trons cecuned

servicing, transportation, and land us, all of which w

consultation with community members that provide
ity t realize sustainably
objectives, including eviconmenta, cultura, social and

stn proving pole direction inthe O ‘rection forthe com

Panning at the official plan level is cared out with

framework established by both Provincial legislation economic objectives
nd te primary policy documents prepared by «
ile ICS ae not required to be prepared b
Provincial policy's implemented by rarepalties in Ontario where an Official Pani in
Fan asilstratedin Figure 4 The place, the ICSP will be prepared in order to demonstrate

then implemented by 2 series of

nat the City of rock is engaged in natives that
ols established int Oficial Plan such as *

-e4 | Ontario's Planning
smework:

Y ny


1.5 PUBLIC
CONSULTATION

‘The process to develop a new Official Pan forthe City
‘of Brockile has involved a significant high degree of
public consitation. To date, there hasbeen a high evel
(of public interest and inolerent in ths inate, which
has been achieved through ahigh number of public
‘consultation events and workshops which and prone
numerous opportunities for residents, business owners,
and interested partis to participate inthe process.

Foundation Workshops
‘The fist major event ofthis open and transparent
publ consultation process was on February 26, 2003,
‘when the first Community Forum Workshop was held
to prosde a background ofthe Official Plan program,
{and obtain ital comments from the publ. Workshop
Daticpants were asked to comment on what they

value about Bockvil, issues and challenges facing
the City and the visions forthe future. Over 100
particpants attended tis workshop, and provided
insightful thoughts and ideas on how to plan forthe
future of Brockile

‘An Economic Development Workshop was held on
March 2, 2009, where participants contributed to
identify community values through the lens ofthe
‘economy, More than 60 people attended ths workshop
‘and provided comments that identified economic

issues, including the lack of small businesses inthe City
the need to increate trans, walkabilty and provide ive!
work opportunities, add more hotels downtown, and
increase sustainably

‘A workshop focusing onthe City's Downtown and
‘Waterfront was held on March 4, 2009. The workshop
focused around eleven efferent sectors within the
downtown and waterfront area, were community
members and interested parties shared thei thoughts
‘on the future of the sector in the Dawintown and

Waterfront ares, Approximately 150 people attended
his meeting, and attracted meaningful an thought
provoking discussion on a vital area of Brockvile
Community members commented on the need to
enhance and expand recreational uses along the
waterfront and promote commercial, residential
recreational and instutional ues inthe Downtown,
Heritage and tourism were aso major topics of
tliscusson inthe workshop.

Ensuring an indusve, meaningful, proactive and
responsive public consuitation process has been one of the
‘most important apecsin the development the City’s new
Official Plan, The nial ceommunty workshons proved

an opportunity to gain a necessary andimpertant
Understanding of key sues facing the communities

cof Brodie, and provided a critical component in
establishing the Foundation Report, which is comprised

‘of several background reports and emerging planning
themes that surfaced from the public workshops,

The fist of two Public Open Houses was held on May
25, 2008, to allow for public comments to be received
fn the Foundation Report, including emerging planning
hemes, economic development, transportation,
Servicing, urban design, the waterfront and downtown,
and future growth. Through extensive datogue and
tliscusson wth community members, key areas of
interest and concern emerged, including the need for
an accesible and barrier-free access t the waterfront,
promoting mixed-use development throughout the
‘downtown, increasing public green space, encouraging
he heritage fee to the City and promating high quality
architecture, maintaining and preserng St. Lawrence
Park, promoting development narth of Water Steet,
and maintaining river views from the downtown area
All pubic comments were considered inthe revisions to
he Foundations Report. The Report was adopted by
Council on June 23, 2008,

Economic Development Strategy | Introd


‘The second Public Open House was held on September

9, 2009 with the purpose of introducing and dscusing

the thee Strategy documents that were developed

from the necessary comments and feedback proved
pe thee Strategies incu

bythe community. 1
th

Economic Development Stra

the Land Use and Growth Management Strategy
the Downtown and Waterfront Master
Urban Design Strategy, and

n and

the preliminary discussion paper on th
Community Sustainabilty Pan

ntegrated

(ver 20 participants attended the Open House,

toreviw the display board
and provide ary question, comments or concerns
with respect tothe Strategy documents or the overall
projec. This was accomplished by weting comments
on colourcoordinated posts nates and attaching
them directly onthe display boards. Comments and
uggestions provided forthe Ecanomic Development
rategy included improving and expanding on
Brock’ Farmer's Market, seeking out regional
parinerships toner

where they were as

and proposing methods to atract business and industry
10 the area. Comments onthe Land Use and Growth
"Management strategy included concerns about servic
development, expansions to the City development land
connect to rail coniders and traffic

‘ments onthe Downtown and Waterfront Mates
Pian and Urban Design Strategy pertained to the
reconfiguration of Water Stret, re-us/re-development
lof older buildings, tous attraction and proposed new
development in the downtown

Comments onthe Integrated Community Sustainability
Plan stressed the importance o reduce energy
‘dependence and seek alternative energy sources,
including "Food" as an action area and providing more
information onthe timing of completion of certain

‘sa follow-up to the second Open House, a Public
Workshop was held on Novernber 9, 2008 to discuss
he draft Economic Development Strategy, draft Land
se and Growth Management Strategy, and the craft
Downtown and Waterfront Master Pan and Urban

Design Strategy.

ticipants were able to review


-ontaiing information on the dra
1s. They were then asked to choo
ot interested

ons that

display boar
rategy docu

in and participate in facitated graun dsc
focused on the specific strategy document

d for addtional boating!
dacks and cing

cerns included the
recreational opportunites (Le. ne
pot), building heights int

‘once over the potential fo
City, the nee fora comprehensive business plan for

wntown and the
a high rie skyline ofthe

the Downtown and economic incentives that atract
ustainabie development, the need to encourage and
upport affordable housing opportunities, and the

need to build and expand the Brock Trl. Participants
ca focused on what they liked and cis not want to

‘changed in the Strategy documents, including
neauraging more peopl to ive downtown, promoting
teitalzation and public acces to the waterfront, the
realignment of Water Steet and the ure of the tunnel
street cing network, and

1 downtown area,

29, encouraging ano

Throughout th
-nowledged and co
public consultation process that has beer
to develop Brockville’ new Official Par

Ae

“Y

nitatie, many participants ba

ndertaken
The input

Z

ved so frm the project process
in less than one year, seven
ned inorder to

nat has beer
has been extensive
consultation exercises have bee

provide a framework forthe development ofthe Official
Plan. The ub forums, meetings, open houses and
workshops that have been held has been well attended

by various communities in Brockile, has brought key
issues and concerns tothe surface, acd has painted
vid picture of how these communities of Soci
want thei City to look, function and evel


1.6 THE PROCESS USED
IN THE ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
STRATEGY

1.7 COMMUNITY VALUES
& THE SOCIOECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT MISSION
STATEMENT

The development of Brock’
besof he

‘onomy should reflect
That

hose aspect

sear Th

he Community The Values

Public Workshop held on Marc

correspondence with various individuals and group
‘Commun

this large body of input, the Values ofthe
vile may be summaraed 3
environment: the ai, the land, and

munity of re

an radically change
at development be appropriate to
thin the Community, While many

4, they should sated
or example, the Tourism Sector

satenaly with the pleasant ling spaces

» A desire to increas local employment opportunities
hat are wel-paying and sustainable, and that

1.9 INTEGRATION OF

1.8 STRATEGIC THIS INITIATIVE WITH
DIRECTIONS THE ICSP

Strategies fr current consideration and action to be ‘As noted, the Economic Development Mission is
led by the Economic Development Office, in partnership being created in association with the preparation o
wth the ps ness and not-for-profit ted Community Sustainabilty Pan

organizato defined in Ontario’ 2008 Feder

Retention ant rent as lang-term plans developed in
a yrmunity members that provide
Buses Ateacion ‘rection for the community 10 realize sustainability

+ Expanding the Tourism Sector 1, including environmental, cultural, sacial and

+ Entrepreneur Attraction objectives.

ration ofa number
iments inusing
ill establish a

cof municipal strategy and ps
he new Official Plan. The
goals and targets related to

be the rks
that investment.
nim to encourage ongoing Co

have been dent

municipalities in Ont
place, the ICSP wil ep
hat the City of Broce is engaged in iitatives that
support municipal sustainability. It il also

hat the City funds for municipal
infrastructure p ability planning
intativesin the f

red inorder to demonstrate

More Strategies og towards
Sostainabiy Strategy, he

have failed in some of the Citys
ohio Geran ayn sustainably, The daft

aly
than have ever torecogne he eed to urbe negate
faltered in their gra target oie

Section 3 and the Econom

development; Section das the inate prog
the imperative is
to convert inertia
into momentum.”

tion | Adopted b


2.1 IMPLICATIONS OF
THE GLOBAL ECONOMIC
CRISIS ON THE FUTURE
ECONOMY

CURRENT ECONOMIC TURBULENCE
and 2008, changes insignificant ec

‘occurred which are having, and wil
3m the economy of Ontario.

2 profound imps

nomic activty has continued
19 due now to the severe global recession, with
term projections being 5
blower than expected actual per

3 aside regular,

“Ti: The downturn hasbeen, and wil co
harp, fora period "71". No-one kno

tobe
exactly when

riod T1 wll end, but estimates ange from the fall of
trough the summer of 2010,

This is a period of plateau and some stability After
Tl ends, 12 could be ashort period only, sy 6 to 12
month

73: An indeterminate petiod and the gradient ofthe
Upslopeisicel to be much les than
(Of TT. One falls down a hill much faster than
‘imbing it Ontario has lagged the US. in losses, and
il similarly lag in recovery Its feasible thatthe extent
‘of T3 may never reach the peaks achieved before the
ve that same, or greater
achieved

The longer the time of T1+T2+T2", the greater the

assembly

Economie Development Strategy | The Economic Backdrop | Adopted by Counc, March 22, 2010 | 18

Figure 6 | Comparing the early 90's with

cirea 2008/9

Ely 908

Recession in effect,

Canadian dolar at US $0.85 to $0.88,
Boosted to meet NAFTA requirements

ira 20089

Recession in effect, perhaps along one

Canadian dolar at US $0.75 to $1.00,
Due tolow US. dolar

‘The economic factors above are often ‘cyclin ature.
‘The economic factors below ate Forces of Restructuring

mination of tariff border means that
multinational subsiianes are na longer
needed

Estimates of over 300,000 multinational
jobs lost in Ontario,

Partialy recovered through the growth
ofthe small Canadian company.

‘Auto Pact (1965) saved the Canadian
industry and, fr the most part,
exceeded the expected 10:1 rule of
marketshare

Large-scale plants had akeady been built
providing ‘pa economies of sale’

Figure 6 compares 2008/9 to previous econamic
turbulence, the introduction ofthe ‘Canada-US. Free
Trade Agreement (CUSTA) of 1988 and the North
‘American Fee Tade Agreement (NAFTA) in 1982. The
cefects of such changes take time to ripple through an
economy,

‘The term ‘cylical change in an economy refers to

2 temporary change often a down-turn following
2 period of grout, which i then followed by

BAIC Baal, Russa, India, China)
countries, reasonably, wish to grow their

‘New capabilites and capacities inthe
BRIC countries enable them to supply
many products and services globally at a
lower cast

Big 3 in decine.

Remains to be seen: Big 2 or Big 1?

another period of growth). While there may be some
rationalzation of industry in ths proces, for the most
par, that industy or economy is much the same
Structurally atthe start and end of the cyclical change
While the temporary decine has been painful if the
workforce can weather the downturn for sufficient
ime, then the employment prospects fr sia
capable workers may be as good, ifnot better, than
before

Ina structural (r secular change, all such bets are off
and these can occur for many reasons. Within a single
industry, Eastman Kodak of Rochester (NY) i a good
‘example. The company gave that iy a commanding,

ng-tanding share of the canwentional photographic
material industry. Yet this was no guarantee of
advantage when Kadak failed to acust quickly to the
revolution ofthe digtal image. While the company

day does have a large market share in digital camera
ales, these devices are not made in Rochestey, oF
North America. Essential the structure of this industry
changed. Automotive supplies to the Big Three are
affected sirsarty wile ver frm such as Honda
{and Tyota, although declines have been seen, are
relatively wel off

As the Canadian dolla resin valve against the U
dol, the relative cost of Canadian products and services|
_o rises, when viewed from south ofthe border. This,
reduces the cost competitiveness ofthese Canadian
products and services compared to domestic US

petition, Further, Canada also becomes relat
re expensive as a foreign iwestment location in
parison tothe U.S. Such 3 rein value started in
rmi-2003, wth te recent peak occuring in 2008 The
Canadian dolar has since falen to more normale
versus the US. currency (between $0.80 and $0.90)
‘ali stil at leat 30% above the values of 2002

‘The price of ol tend to ise inversely with the valve
of the U.S. dolla, since the cammadkty spiced in
that currency. Canada & an ol-producing county an
this has a further eect, since the Canadian dolar
aso tends tose against the US. dalla in proportion
the price of oll The price of ol affects the cost of
operations in many industries, directly or indirect thus
impacting the growah ofthese user industries

In ation, companies in Ontario have seen sit
product competition from overseas and, for certain
products, they ar electing to take this alternative
themselves by purchasing more standardized product
from, for example, China, while contining custom and
fast turn-around work locally. This is 2 very common
trend in many industies in North America uti is by
no means new, simply, the condition are right for

an accelerated, broaderranging transference of the
labour content from North America to the emerging
industrial nation rnpany owners do not do this
ight, since they are aware ofthe impacts on the local

employees. Yet, without such action, they belive that
heir firms would fail aryway, puting all out of work

For Canadian firms, there isan added incentive to
Use offshore sourcing since it provides an element of
natural hedging’ agains the severe excursions inthe
Canada-US. currency exchange rate. Most offshore
sourcing canbe arranged in U.S. dolar terms and any
fluctuations in revenue experienced by Canadian firms,
wien seling tothe US, is then offset,

by the reduction in input ost from this outsourced
Content. Tota insulation from cross-border curency
fluctuations canbe obtained only by actually locating in
he market country and, in many cases, thi the US
Faling ust short ofthat, buying material and assembles
in US. dollars, from newiy emerging industrialised
‘counties such as China and India, the alternative
low-cost strategy

“There isa
bulldozer
of change
sweeping the
planet.

If you don’t

become

art of the
bulldozer,
you become
part of the
road:

— Futurist Frank

Economie Development Strategy | The Economic Backdrop | Adopted by Counc, March 22, 2010 | #5

2.2 IMPLICATIONS FOR
LOCAL ECONOMIES

‘Once the current jb losses have ceased and the
‘economy has stablized, the trauma ofthe recent
‘economic turbulence wil cause people to be more
cautious in ther spending. Further, the perceived loss
in wealth, caused by the reduction in the value of
investments and propery, will add to this effect. Some
implications are

Personal debt reduction will be of greater importance
than consumption. A natural defensive move

Household savings rates wl increase and these will
materialize in instruments that ae believed tobe more
secure People wil place security ahead of spectaculat
gains

if housing prices rebound only slow the decine
experienced in home equity value hasan indirect
cffecton consumer spending, The ine af cet held

ty many, and which secured by the equity in ther
home, has moved closer tothe point of perl. While
equity has reduced in lockstep with market valve, the
debt has remained rack soli, and many homeowners
will be attempting to reduce ths as part of thei debt
repayment strategy. They perceive that a failure to do so
may rest inthe lender caling the loan, with no ability
to repay other than, posi the forced sale ofthe
family home

Since their esdence wil have decreased in vale, many
homeoumers wil not elas readily, percening that

they should wat fora markt rebound in order not
tolose value. Consequently, they may elect to make
renovations to create anew environment, a the same
time increasing the value oftheir property, which they
hope late to recoup. In this case, they can put the
reator sales commission to good use by investing in
high-etur renovations, such a kitchens, the bathroom
and street appearance improvements.

Consumption patterns may change and value will
replace status’ consumption. Ifthe produc is adequate
‘and reasonably price, then the logo or label wll matter
les. The deep dscounts that many retallers were forced
to offer recently in order ta quidateiventores and
ay suppliers, may become the norm, as consumers
seek the best value. Discounters such as Wal-Mart and
the ubiquitous ‘dollar stores’ wil see a higher level of

patronage, while the brand specialist stores that thrive
fon prestige labels and higher margin, may fade from
the scene

Quality, second hand goods wilincrease in value inthe
minds of many, since the ‘profit s perceived to have
bbeen paid for by the orignal purchaser. Goodwill, and
simlar stores, wil increase in popula, while “e-Bay
wil also see an increase in trafic

Large ticket items such as vehicles and major appliances
willbe repaired and enjoy an extended service ‘if

The numberof retail outlets wil decrease a stores seek
to broaden ther offerings in order to attract a wider
range of Customers and achieve higher leves of overall
sales to ost their considerable fied costs

Wiile one or more of the Big Three" North American
automakers wil survive all three wl likely be reduced
in size to varying degrees and, consequently, employ
fewer people

2.2.1 THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY IS
MULTLPACETED

In commercial construction markets, decines in office
based employment - i.e, the finance insurance and
realestate sector, plus business services suchas legal,
accounting and architectural ~ will ate office vacancy
Fates and lower rents, reducing capital spencing
prospects.

Reta construction will be hampered by weaker ob
markets and lower homebuilding acti,

Warehouse construction depends upon consumer
spending and manufacturing; both of those sectors ae,
and willbe, challenges.

Institutional construction and medical facility
‘onstruction isan ongoing requirement on account
ofthe ageing ofthe post-war baby boom generation
These wil also be helped by government infrastructure
spending, designed to help boost the ecanamy.

Faclity construction atthe level af higher education
‘may be warranted by increases in envoiments at

Universities and community colleges. Remaining inthe
education system sone way to weather the recesion,

is abo a response to the need for more traning and intensive, tis now the turn ofthe Third Word o sel 12
rgher leaning, to compete in what has become a ne Western Worl
internationally competitive job marke

» In those industries dependent ypon the heath

Engineering constuction is where the bulk o
government’ infasructure spending will occu

employment growth ie not predicted, due tothe

o n in popaiationewen, ear i hiring, to fill future vacancies, is uncertain today.

few employers ae predicting increases in demand for mn

particular skill sets at this time, or in the near future ‘case in point i the manufacturing sector, which
° he classic case, with a multi-tiered supply chair

Western World sold goods and services to the Third cous he ast essa or mare a

ee Inmany sectors, most especially where lowe which these countries increase their capabilities w

Economie Development Strategy | The Economic Backskop | Adopted by Counel, March

2010 | 7


» Local population dependent jobs will continue
to see increased demand but in twa distinct
Categories. inceases in population and the large
cohort of ageing ‘baby-boomers’ wil ensure the
‘growth of essential service occupation. These
vil be focused on persona care ad profesional
series such as physicans, nurses, and ather
health care profession, as wel as anyers and
similar non-medeal professions
Concurenty, while stil the weathiest cohort that
‘the world has ever seen, these same ‘boomers
are now much es likly to spend inthe previous
profligate manner on escrevonary items In
particular, lid off workers from the manufacturing
‘sector may find work n lower paying service jobs,
‘out they wl then have lite discretionary money
valle. Thi, in turn, wil aflect employment n
the retal sector ata levels.

Further while bulders and contractors may be
suffering fram the housing downturn, many
‘tadespersons ae starting their own businesses in
the field of renovation. oomers, perceiving that
they wil ose value by sling their houses, are
‘opting, to some extent, to renovate. Sx percent
realy commissions ona $400,000 house can abo
buy renovations that add value to an eventual sale,
as well as refreshing the current lving envionment.
Further, government grants to improve household
ecotfcieney make such projects much more
attractive and, once, more, add future value

2.3 IMPLICATIONS FOR
FUTURE OCCUPATION
TRENDS

Despite the day-to-day uncertainty inthe economy in
the longer-term, most industries are expected to resume
previously established grow patterns.

For example, industries which are dependent upon the
local population for their markt wil tend to gray,
‘more o ess, with that local population. Local services
and real are the prime example; the more ‘essential
they are, the more the more that ther growth wll
corelate with population growth. This effects most
key inthe larger region, such asthe GTA, with mary
terse economic drivers,

Industries witha high dependency on extemal markets,
especial those exporting outside of Ontario, wil

bbe more influenced by direct or indirect demand

from those external markets. The projection ae less
predictable in such cases

2.3.1 REPETITIVE MANUFACTURING
ASSEMBLY LINE JOBS.

These jobs will diminish. There had been a definite
tend in this direction over the past decade but the
current economic turaulence wil tigger a steeper
‘ecine. This wil not be reversed once the econamy
recovers and the implications ar significant, both
rectly and indirectly

Although manufacturing is under pressure today in
(Ontario, few predict that i wil appear entirely
‘What is forecasted i that manufacturing industries wil
be transformed from the presently familiar enterprises,
employing many lesser educated and informally skilled


persons working on relatively repetitive short-cycle
tasks, into companies that ae increasingly knowledge:
trven inal aspects of day operation. Such operations
requiealabour force with the necessary ity

and fexbilty to cope with an ever-increasing rat of
‘change. Most people are quite able to adjust o this
but, without approprate education, sis and the
necessary attitude and capacity to adapt, existing
Workers will have a har time finding employment,
and thriving, in this new wave of manufacturing

The ‘older manufacturing’ ofthe later part ofthe lat
century enabled those with informa’ skils and a lowe
level of education to ear higher rates of pay than
hose with similar qualifications working in many service
jobs. Thishigh volume, commodity type production,
In education and is being ‘transfered rapidly tothe newiy emerging
skills development industal giants overseas. The ‘new manufacturing’ of
jer term view North America wil be hard put to find places for these
same people and wil be seeking those with levels of
education and formal qualifications that, inthe minds
fof the companies, are synonymous with knowledge
workers and the mental agit to rapidly comprehend,
internalize ad effect change. The significant message
of today, while not surprising is that low education
equals low pay, or no pay.

Economie Development Strategy | The Economic Backdrop | Adopted by Counc, March


2.3.2 OCCUPATIONS BEYOND THE
ASSEMBLY LINE

» Some of the associated professionals and skilled
workers in manufacturing wll so lose thei jobs,
‘ince the pants will have moved tothe emerging
economies such as China and Inca. A number
‘of managers wil be retained to coordinate the
sourcing ofthe pars from elsewhere. n effect,
theres sila production line but its no longer in
the same building, Most mutnatinal companies
have long had centralised control functions and
distibuted manufacturing; this is no more than a
change of adcess and telephone area code,
hile those professionals who are lad off will have
an easier ime finding wotk, due to their education
and transferable experienc, it may well bein a
ifferent field and at lower pay, atleast intially
{large portion ofthe consuming pubic wil have
less disposable income. This wil havea significant
‘doming effect on many parts of the economy,

since losses here wil ipple through individual
households, as well as into mary other sectors that
have relied upon prosperity to fel local consumer
‘goods and services purchasing

Essential products and services in the population
dependent occupations will do relatively well asthe
population grows, since people wil ill ned these
products and services

Discretionary spending, such as retail, wl diminish,
especial for high-tcket and prestige items
Despite the growth of the population, occupations
in the retail sector will grow ata slower rate
compared to previous forecasts, due tothe lower
levels of cscretionary funds inthe households
"Many subcontractors inthe construction trades will
tur towards renovations as an alternative source
of income.


2.3.3 PENT-UP DEMAND IN THE,
RECOVERY

Complicating the alignment of required skis with
available workforce, willbe the pent-up demand for
‘employment opportunities:

‘There wil be anita surplus of olde, experienced
people to take up the emerging postions if companies
‘wil hire them at ther age

Retitees may have to dip in and out of the work force,
‘especialy if ther retirement funds were too heavy
invested in stocks, Workers SS and aver may have to
‘work longer than they had planned, as they see the
date at which they can afford to retire recede before
them. There wll be more temporary, no-beneis,
contract workers, composed of those of working-age
‘who had lost ther obs a well as from retrees’ now
unable to afford to retire

The Es

onomie Development Strategy

Layots are becoming a more common management
tool. Companies may now cut staff in anticipation of a
potsble strain on cash flow, as opposed to aftr such
an operational constraint has actualy occurred.

Tighter credit and lowered asset values will make it
hatder for students to pay for futher education. They
‘may need to take intermittent semesters off and work
ful time to make ends meet. Ths wil once more, add
ta the demand for already scarce jobs

mic Backeop unc, Mard


Figure 8

Industries that Businesses that may
conform ta Bracke be developed or
Community Values attracted

‘The KEY is to identify the intersection of those opportunities that conform to Community Values
[AND those that may be developed based upon jurisdictional advantages inthe prevaiing economic
climate. The Strategies identified below are designed to meet these Mision requirements

on a(Wy)n—

(3) RECOMMENDED
STRATEGIES

3.1 EON ASTON
AND EXPANSIO.
EXISTING BUSINESSES

Brock


Figure 9 | Overview of Recommended Current Strategies

for the Brockville Socioeconomic

Mission

Brackvile Socioeconomic
Development Mision
{oth impli aac of Corman Vas

Business Atraction Strategy for Retention

aay and Expansion of
isting Businesses
Entrepreneur
Attraction
Pb Services Strategy Entepreneur
sector Atvaction Development
Swateqy

Stags maybe amped raced one stages
recaps our te The cess n na marr fs heintenty
fetsson and the npc ues fe Comm

‘A Business Retention and Expansion’ program (ER&E)
isa funded economic development too, developed

by the Ontario Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Rural
Afars(OMAFRA) to ad rural communities in improving
the local economy and local job creation. This would

be an excellent starting point frm which to gain an
understanding ofthe challenges facing local industry
and how the City and others, can assist in removing
bares, encouraging retention and business growth

‘The BRAE program structure volves the development
‘ofa tack fore and volunteers that vsit companies to
‘gather data based upon tied and tested parameters
‘developed under this OMAFRA program. The data

is then analyzed and the information used to asst

in developing and achieving goals that wil help

bul on existing opportunities a wall as help make
business connections with other businesses and new

nator | Loca strategic ares fr many
pees of the Stes)

Brodie 1000 ands

Foutan nde Chamber NASMHOUED Community

Expanson of | tite oslo

Comers Corporation

Mow ctatastenmy Ontario at 100 ands
Hhied ert omar Region
Sprorunites core owed Development Workforce

‘tena x sacwconomie Commission Development
a toad
Frontenac Arh Bosphre Reserve

‘opportunites. In ation, such visitation programs are
an excellent method by which to learn how well the
City puts forward an ‘open for business’ atmosphere
Tis vital impression is ficult o judge from within
‘most City organizations and the feedback, taken in
context, can help to corect activities and postures that,
inadvertent, have an unweleoming effec.

In a supporting role the Brockille Chamber of
Commerce and the 1000 Islands Community Futures
Development Corporation would be appropiate local
partners in this activity.

“Business Retention and Expansion’ fot a ‘once in
five years activity, It must be carried out continuously
‘through frequent contact with businesses and related
lerganiztions across Brocklle.A visitation schedule
should be developed to ensure that this discipline is
‘maintained on a consistent bas,

3.2 BUSINESS
ATTRACTION

This strategy can bring significant employment rewards
as well as diversifying the tax base. tis no surprise that
itis alo the most dificut to execute succesful, since
it equies a congruence of conditions for succes, such

‘The economy itself must be stable and provide
confidence credit availabilty, secure customers,
secure suppliers and so on

Brocklle must be able to demonstrate
Jursdictonal advantages that are above those of
Competing jurcicons. The geographic limit of
this competition may be very local or continent
wide, epencing upon the nature ofthe business
involved,

Target firms that grow their businesses through
physical plant expansion in local areas, rather than
concentrating in ane or two major locations.
(Often from medium size companies looking to
expand.

In more rare cases from multinational corporations
that seea major local advantage suchas
Jursictional and labour costs, rv material
‘valablity of occasionally, market proximity.

3.2.1 REALISTIC TARGET SECTORS

it isital to be realistic about what can be achieve in
the present economic environment and act accordingh
Attracting ary industry direct that doesnot already
have afecthol, ora fundamental reason tobe in

‘2 community, is aways a challenge. Inthe present
‘economic envierment regionally (and beyond) this
‘Would be even more dificult to accomplish

‘Some food processing operations requite large volumes
‘of water. This waters returned tothe City in a state
‘that requires treatment before being emptied tothe
cevitonment. The City of Brockilef ator near capacity
tw handle such outgoing water loads but this situation
vill mprove inthe future

While business attraction isa primary responsibility
‘ofthe City, the private sector shoud be seconded
‘needed to assist ax Ambassadors and to provide
references.

3.3 TOURISM INDUSTRY
EXPANSION

3.3.1 CREATION OF EVENTS.

The pleasant environment, the biosphere and similar
‘more natural attractions ate the strengths of Brockvile
Leveraging upon these requires that additional tourist
attraction appeal ta the same demographic. Events,
lected on a Friday and torn down on Sunday, are not
tye sores, The key ito develop these in concert with
the uniqueness ofthe City and surrounding region;

in other words, ‘not just another Highland Games’
Partnering withthe Chamber and others may result in
the identification of such events over ime

Brockilehas avery attractive entrance way jst before
settling into dovmtovin The heritage homes and

views across the waterway ae also some ofthe mast
attractive in Ontario. The hil leading dawn tothe water
‘an be used to good effect in creating some spectacular
images for promotional purposes, San Francisco views
Sometimes use tis feature, especialy with telephoto
lenses

Tourism should be one means af economic develoment
in every Community that ean atract the outside vitor.
However, itis unwise to rely soley upon tourism to
tive an economy, most especially when attempting
to "eplace’ manufacturing jobs. While the overs

cf local tour establshment wl eap incremental
revenues, the employees of such businesses ae often
Compencated at the minimum wage level Further,
unless yearound vsitr attraction is achieved, this
work sony avalable for 6034-70 ofthe year. Most,
manufacturing assembly line jobs have netted twice
that amaunt or more on an annual basis

Rather than possibly unsightly permanent attractions,
‘mutt local event can be develoned that, once
finished, are packed away forthe yea, leaving litle
impact onthe local landscape. Those impressed with
the Community wil etun for future events, as well
as consider the possibilty of taking up permanent
residency.

Economie Development Strategy | Recommended Strategies | Adopted by Counc, March 23, 2010 25


3.3.2 MARKETING OF THE CITY FOR
‘ENTREPRENEUR ATTRACTION’ AND
‘TOURISM INDUSTRY EXPANSION

‘The fundamental marketing can be developed and
provided by the City, and some senior government
assistance may be avaiable.

‘The Chamber of Commerce, Business Improvement
‘ea, a8 wel a individual businesses should form
part of the marketing development team inorder to
‘promote a consistent theme tobe adopted bya

Coordination of events would be valuable and the
promotion shouldbe ast widely.

‘The existing cultural industries can ao playa major
‘ole and benef from partcipation atthe same time,
through inreased ‘trafic

‘A webpage or better sil. a website dedicated to
‘people attraction’, would be valuable. Prince Edward
County is exemplary in this aspect of ther marketing

43.3.8 DOWNTOWN REVITALIZATION AND
FACADE IMPROVEMENTS IN TOURIST
AREAS:

This can have an immethate “wow impact on fsttime
\sitrs and combines wall withthe street café and
cultural industries concept. Historical Site designations
‘0 hep to stir interest. Community Improvement Plans
‘maybe of vale here, Also the Communty Futures
Development Corporation "Access to Capita’ program
may be of value

3.3.4 PARTNERING BETWEEN
BUSINESSES

Partnering between businesses (cros-promotions
and similar mutual events) an bring mutual benefits.

Coordination of muitple events should not be seen as
Competition but rather asa colaboratwe opportunity
from which mary may benefit.

CULTURAL INDUSTRIES
‘The development of Cultural Industries can serve as an

attractor fr the ‘target tourist’ and this can encourage
touts to consider taking up residence and, potential,
start businesses locally.

ECO-TOURISM
"Much potential and consideration should be given to
‘eco-tourism asa major thrust.

‘The development of an effective Tours Marketing
Plan and associated materials isan important element in
this strategy


3.4 ENTREPRENEUR
ATTRACTION

Tourism is aso the ‘Advanced Guard in attracting
Entrepreneurial Residents. Thsis a specl case of
Business Attraction’. The qualty of if in Brock is
used to attract entrepreneurial residents who may then
tart businestes, While such businesses may take mary
years to develop into sizeable enterprises, utimately they
may create a demand for atonal empiayment lands,

By no means are entrepreneurs confined to the cohort

of the "Baby Boomer’. However, Statistics Canada

land other commentators have documented the

demographics ofthe Baby Boomers and how thishas

had a profound effect onthe aut-migration from cites
ural locations, especialy in Central Canada,

In Canada, those in the 50-65 age group cont
of the westh in Canad, their residential prop
valued at over $230 billion and they have 2

net worth estimated to be over $550 bilin

Memibers ofthis demographic group are usual a
the peak oftheir ncame earning cycle, have lw fied

expenses and, asa rule, no mortgage. They have often
‘moved out of the fami’ home and prefer either
condominiumftownhouselving or lving in ual settings.

They may have retired offically but want to continue to
tke an active part inthe investments and may tart up a
‘ew busines, They ae often entrepreneurs of some

Disposable Time = Total time LESS time at work
LESS time spent traveling to and from work

ritability Index = Time spent in trafic

These demographics describe a ange chort that mobile
and which may wish to spend more time in ral sting
These same people may aso want to stay in touch with
pe larger urban centres from a cultural and entertainment
point of view: Lifestyles a major attractor fort

Economie Development Strategy | Recommended Strategies | Adopted by Councl, March 23, 201027

‘owners that appreciate this characteristic. Such owners
‘wil consider this aa benefit fer not any themselves ut
for thir employees. In particulars employing highly
skilled and well-paid employees are always concerned that
‘they may be attracted elsewhere by other simlar Fs that
ar located in more ideal suroundings or who canoer
‘avery desirable ife-ye. By locating in such a pleasant
‘esvronment, th the amenities and culture deste, such
‘employee retention becomes areal

Brockuil offers acales where ths may be achieved. The
end goal of attracting resident to lv in Brockile and,
potential stat businesses, quires an enhanced Tourn
‘Sector inorder to highlight the City tis necessary to
teate an ambience where people come to lve because of
the beauty, wbrancy, and amenities ofthe community.

Some ofthe potential businesses are:

* Virtual businesses in almast any sector which can
be conducted in the home or office

Professionals such a lawyers, doctors, therapists,
engineers, accountants

Knowledge-based industries, which are identified
ashigh growth

Information technology and software
Life scences, healthcare and biotechnology
Media and entertainment

Motion picture and video production
Computer systems design
Environmental consulting and services
Services forthe aged

Private health advisory services and spas,

Research and development in any number of
scientific fields

Attracting entrepreneurial and siled new immigrants
to Canada tothe Citys another potential avenue for
epplration

‘There ae a numberof retired or semi-retired residents
in Brockvile wo have run businesses inthe past oF
who may sil be actvelymvoWved today. These residents
may beable to provide valuable insights into what
itl take to put Brockville high on the tof those
seeking to relocate or start nev busineses, in particular
for those sectors with which they are most familia.

3.1 ATTRACTION OF NEW CANADIAN
RESIDENTS

"New Canadian residents, especially those with
professional qualifications, represent an essential asset
for the future of Ontario. Frequent the fist setting
point fr New Canadian residents will be inthe major
Centres, especialy if ther isa similar existing cultural
‘commuiniy-base Later, having become accustomed
to ther new home, some may be enticed to pleasant
Uurban-ual settings, such as Broce.

Where local fms are attracting newcomers for specific
je, then that i an effort lea by the firm. The City
‘an provide a supportive envionment and services for
these newcomers and this investment will make the
path easier to attract more, through the word-of-mouth
promotion of Brockville asa welcoming Community.

From a broad target perspective, without speci job

placements, there are two main target categories
‘Weather entrepreneurial immigrants: This fas
Under the People Attraction thrust, regardless of
whether they are New Canadians or from along
line of ascendants

Younger well-educated and siled workers: This
wel prove’ the workforce age demographic,
and, potentially, the educational profile Al, since
‘mary wil bring fares wth them, the future
profile ao enhanced, While such migration
necessary in order to provide a strong work force
forthe future, there isa question as tothe nature
ofthe work avaiable now. snot commensurate
with expectations, then the New Canadian may not
remain inthe City fr long, defeating the purpose
fof atracting them nthe fst place Further, such
younger families have fewer nancial resources by
which to sustain themselves while the local economy
is developed. Ths sno dfferen than the present
Significant ‘dip in the Broce age profile between
20 and 29 years Sucess in adding younger New
Canadian families to fil this dp implies that there
are good jb opportunities apparent, and naw. Yet
if his wer the case then younger persons raised
cxgnal i Brockvile would have been less Hey to
leave, which snot the case at present

3.5 ENTREPRENEUR
DEVELOPMENT

‘Te development of entrepreneurs from within the
Community, succesful, s one of the most effective
‘means by which to generate economic activity. Thisis
‘not a short-term process and will require continuous
attention in order to nurture potential entrepreneurs
‘through every stage to success. Further i estimated
‘that only one percent ofthe population have the
characterises necessary for successful entrepreneurship
and not all attempts wil be successful

Various support mechanisms have been used to varying
degrees of success and these may be considered

{for development in rockvile, As a regional centre,
these can serve communities well beyond the City
‘boundaries, Volunteer mentorship programs, with
‘mature, perhaps retired, entrepreneur mentors, is one
possible program. At the ather end of the spectrum,

13 ful incubator could be considered, with businesses
locating therein for a period of time or unt some
criteria of miestone has been reached, in intermediate
stage might be a‘vitual incubator, with a central cre
‘of support sewices but without the colocation of the
‘busines.

‘When promoting business mentoring assistance for
local entrepreneurs, especialy fledgings:
» Followup pro-actively since mary entrepreneurs
‘donot realize when they need help or redirection.
» Offer an honorarium, if ned be, to retires and
‘others to provide such mentoring but pre-qualify
‘the mentor to ensure that value for money is
‘obtained
+ Consider a busines incubator along the lines ofthe
Toronto Business Development Cente, but smal.
» St Lawrence College may be able to refine courses
tout emerging needs.
» Ondine learning is another mechanism to be
promoted.

‘The private sector is quite good at identifying
‘opportunites and acting upon them. Entrepreneurs,
alms by definition, take risks and have a belie that
the risks ($8) can be overcome fr a sufficient reward
(8855). Entrepreneurs will tnd to optimize their
chances fr success by operating ina manner and in an
environment most conducive to that success. Anything

that can mitigate, reduce or spread that risk increases
the risk-bearing capacity ofthe entrepreneur and
should be considered in order to promote such risk-
taking locally.

» Consider tangible financial or ‘backstop suppor.

» Make it lear thatthe Community i prepared to
shate the rk

Establish a clear st of financial performance
guidelines (covenants) and monitor rgorousy. Help
the firms to meet the requirements and foredose
only asa last esot; but do take that final step if
need be to maintain public credit.

Ensure public avarenes of the sks and rewards of
such ventures

» Not all businesses succeed, When no public
sector fund are involved then it a nan-
event for many people other than those
involved ect, When public sector funds
are involved then cancerns may be raises
regarding the advsabilty of such support.

+ These concerns should not dissuade such
support and the more that the public
Understand the risks and benefits then the
‘more support wil be achieved fo such an
investment in the Community

“The development
of entrepreneurs
from within the

Community is
one of the most
effective means
which to generate
economic activity

Economie Development Strategy | Recommended Strategies | Adopted by Counc, March 23, 20102

3.6 WORKFORCE
DEVELOPMENT

development plans. In sme cases the need ira

The key is

se he igh
attractor and
lled jobs 2

3.6.1 THE WORKFORCE AS A BUSINESS
ATTRACTOR

requirements ofthe bigher skilled
ay be an important factor fo
the future


Economic

Strong linkages

improved \ Hisher probably 7 facdced sil

ope atchina ‘SI8C( development

mechanism /// "eect stl intervals
avaiable -~

Economie Development Strategy | Recommes

fed Strategies | Adopted by Council, Marc

20108

The required workforce capabilities are not static and
change with the fut ofthe economy. tan be
argued that, withthe influences of technology, global
‘markets and emerging industal counties, there

has never been atime when so much is changing so
‘quickly for so many. The rate of change of economies
'Soutstrpping our ability to navigate through these
‘changes of direction using the present strategies of
‘education and workforce development

[As shown inthe diagram, identifying required sis
‘makes sense onlyin the context of the occupations

‘in which those skis ae, or wl be deployed, ard the
Industries in which the accupatins ae at present or
‘may be found in the future. The economy, both locally
and global, wil have an impact on industries andthe
future requirement fr speci sils ill be similarly
impacted

Reducing the rate of economic change is beyond
‘easanable control so means must be found to respond
tot Ideal, ths issue shouldbe tackled from both
fends, That
» Developing mechanisms to create the most credible
projections. Although tis can be accomplished

‘once the current economic uncertainty cess, few
forts today wll provide the answer to this part of
the equation

Developing means to reduce the time required to
develop sil since this essential to meet the
‘ate of economic change, regardless ofthe ability
of fms to make projections. The faster that such
skis can be developed, theless important i the
accuracy of projections

The models has
changed..the
system must
respond

3.7 HIERARCHY OF
EDUCATION AND SKILLS
AND DEVELOPMENT
NEEDS

The focus ison four main teas Despite effo

made to accommodate the varying
increasing he educational attainment levels of the ‘needs of individuals, the fact that many have nat
rent. chosen to upgrade their sills or have been unable t
5 do so, implies that something is missing inthe present
ping Essential Skils that re generally Sorel a ene spine er
nthe workplace and in fe, regardless of ‘stem. That something harism designed
salable tha werkplae © achieve the results rather than simply provide

‘opportunity. The challenge sone of helping thase
» Developing mul-skiled persons who can quickly

turn these skis toa variety of opportuni
including the further development required
advanced work

Most critical is the dese ofthe individual to achiev

+ Rapid deployment of skis attuned to spectic higher levels of education and skis, flowed closely b
industry needs, as these become apparent. iitating mechanisms, to connect the wing learner
with the opportunity to learn and be trained
For the most par, the necessary curricula and
development courses ae avaiable today through

the Community wha wish to, and ae abet, tak
dvantage ofthe opportunites.

te
A

Economie Development Strategy | Recommende:

‘The importance ofthis cannot be overstated. Although
there wil alvays be some employment opportunities,
valle fora numberof lesser-educated people,

‘these jobs wil take an more and more ofthe folowing
characterises:

+ Fewer opportunites availabe inthe higher paying
manufacturing obs that once were. Many more
‘opportunites wil be open tothe better-educated
worker

+ Few opportunities for advancement unless though
continued eduction

» Lower pai.

+ More subject to oss of employment du tothe
work being ‘exported’ overseas to jurisdictions with
even lower wages

3.8 PREVENTIVE
EDUCATION AND SKILLS
DEVELOPMENT

The present education and traning sytem allows those
who are wiling and able, to gan an education and
skills development to acheve that objective Yeti azo
permits those who are unwiling, o who face barter,
not fo participate Whale this may have sufficed in

the past, when wellpaying manufacturing obs were
avalabl to those without higher education and formal
skill, this i no longer the case and may never be so
again

Beyond providing the opportunity for education and
skills development, means must be found to ensure that
the workforce actally undergoes the transformation

Just as “Preventive Medline” is readily accepted,
consider ths as Preventive Education and Skils
Development’. The deeate to be guarded against is
‘Chronic Unemployment’, ich forces the individual to
become a burden on, rather than a contributor to, the
economy. Simply put, its in the best interests ofthe
individual and the Cormmunity to insist upon workforce
development. The concep is radical and mechanisms
are not yet developed but these must evolve overtime
23s the recommendations to engage the Community
unfold

How can the necessary upgrating of education and
skills that area the core of workforce development,
be postvely achieved? Individuals wll have diferent
challenges to face in obtaining education and skis
Upgrades, and the establshed mechanisms may not
be sufficient in some cases. These challenges must be
addrested an an indidual bass, otherwise there s
the risk that a particular barr wil be insurmountable
for some persns, Unies such facitating mechanisms
are added to the mi, the resus achieved wal be no
afferent than inthe past and that wll not achieve the
ddesred outcome.

3.9 SUSTAINABILITY
GOALS AND TARGETS

'As discussed, a number of goals and targets that are
related tothe City’s economy ar introduced by the
Integrated Community Sustainability Strategy, which
has been prepared in association with this Strategy
document As the recommended Strategies in Section
3 andthe Economic investment Acton Plan in Section
4 are carted forward as part of the broader ICSP and
Official Plan project forthe City of Brock, the goals
and targets ofthe Integrated Community Sustainability
‘Strategy wil azo be cared forward in integrated

‘The following goals and targets deal specifically with
the Citys ecanamy and touch on many ofthe issues
and directions noted in the previous sections. They wll
be carried fordard and fine tuned as pat ofthe City's
Economic Development Mision process:

Sustainable Business Development Goals
» To maintain a strong and diverse commercial

and employment base by supporting the retention

{and expansion of existing employment and

‘commercial uses.

To ensure that there are sufficient lands

designated for commercial and employment uses

vthin the City

To consider the impact of decision making with

respect to land use on opportunites fr business

attraction and expansion.

To invest in infrastructure to attract and support
busines development and investment.

To attract a wide range of employment and
commercial uses. To specifically target business
‘that reflects the values of the community

To develop a diverse, creative, innovative, and
‘entrepreneurial economy.

To strengthen the role af the Citys downtown
{tea as a multi-functional, economic centre serving
the immediate area aswell as the greater region
To preserve and enhance the unique character
and experience ofthe downtown area and to
Censure that remains wbrant and atractve to

residents and visitors alte forts cuture, shopping,
and attractions.

» To grow and promote the City’ toursm industry,
amenities and events, with a focus onthe
‘downtown and waterfront ares,

+ To anticipate, understand, and accommodate
new economies and emerging trendsin the
employment and commercial sectors

+ To develop incentive programs to ensure
patticipation by the private sector in business
evelopment, investment, and downtown
revitalization,

+ To suppor locally owned and operated
businesses and to promate the concept of buying
local to residents,

+ To promote effective partnerships between
busines, government, and stakeholders.

+ To minimize the impact of business practices on
the natural environment, including the City's air
and water quality,

‘Sustainable Business Development Targets:

» By 2031, the numberof obs within the City will
increase by 40 percent

» By 2031, there willbe an doubling in the
percentage of the labour force that belongs tothe
Citys creative sector

» By 2031, the City of Srockuile willbe identified as
the choice City in Eastern Ontario for tourism and,
the establishment of new businesses,

» By 2031, the City of Brockile will be identified a 2
choice City n Eastern Ontario forthe establishment
cof new businesses in the creative economy.

» 8) 2021, the Cty wllhave an accurate ventory of
obs and busnesses and accrmparyng deta anda
‘means to manta ths informaton eaty and equa

» By 2021, the numberof obs within the City wll
increase by 6% percent

» By 2021, the City wil review its commercial and
employment land needs to ensure that thee isan
adequate assessment

Economie Development Strategy | Recommended Strategies | Adopted by Counc, March 23, 2010 35


» By 2021, the City wll undertake research into » By 2021, there willbe an increase inthe number

‘emerging new economies and emerging trends, of businesses implementing corporate social
‘wil communicate the resus of the research the responsibilty andor producing o providing
‘community and present an action plan to attract sustainable goods and services.

such opportunities.

» By 2021, the City wll participate in the Business ‘Sustainable Workforce Goals:

Retention and Expansion program offered by the + To encourage and assist ciizens to apply thee
Ontario Ministry of Agneulture, Food, and Rural innovative, creative and entrepreneurial stils to
Afar and publish the resus take advantage of employment opportunites.

+ By 2021, the dallar amount of private sector » To encourage and assist citizens to enhance their
investment leveraged by the City asa result of level of education and theists, and tobe flexible
‘ne or more Community improvement Pans will in pursuits of employment
increase +» To ensure that there are increasing local

» By 2021, the City will enjoy an increase in vstation employment opportunites that are wel-paying and
and expenditures ‘mesningful and that wll encourage young families

» By 2021, there wil be an increase inthe number to locate an remain in Broce.
cof ocal events held annually within the City, and » To attract and retain educated professionals in
spectically within the downtown and waterfrnt the Citys workforce
ares » To encourage and assist volunteering and

+ By 2021, there wil be improvements to ‘mentorship n young adults
telecommunications infrastructure within the City + To ensure that residents (including youth) have
of Brock acces, to education and sis training, eluding

+ By 2021, there wil be an incease inthe number ‘co-operative programs including overcoming
of residents who report that they support localy individual economic and social barriers
‘owned and operated businesses by buying local + To ensure that there are increasing job

‘opportunities for youth ages 15-24 inthe
community


+ To position St. Lawrence College and other key
learning asets and faites a recognized centres
‘of excellence in technology, entrepreneurship, and
research and development

‘Sustainable Workforce Targets:

+ By 2031, there wil bea 20% increase in average
family income

+ By 2031, the Citys unemployment rate willbe
below the average forthe Leeds and Grenville
United Counties and nearby urban centres such as
Kingston and Bele

» By 2031, there will be an increase inthe number
cof residents who have completed a least apost-
secondary or an apprenticeship or trades certificate
to.equal or exced the average for Ontario,

+ By 2031, all resident wil have equal accesso
‘one or more Centres of excellence in technology,
entrepreneurship, and research and development
thin the City of Brocka that offer education
and skis training opportunities.

+ By 2031, there wil be doubling in the number of
citizens who exgres that they have job satisfaction

» By 2021, a there willbe an increase inthe number
‘of residents who are employed in ther elds within
half a year of graduating

» By 2021, there will bea decrease inthe number of
residents aged 15 to 24 who have no certificate,
diploma, or deree

» By 2021, resident wil report that they have
greater equa acess toa variety of local education
and sls training opportunities.

{As adtional goals and targets ae identified and
refined foreach ofthe foundations and action areas
23s part of the Integrated Community Sustainability
Plan intiatwe for the City of Bracke, those goals
and targets that are related to growth within the
City wl al be carried forward through the growth
‘management planning process

Economie Development Strategy | Recommended Strategies | A


Figure 13

Recommended City of Bodie Counc
forsocorconome Development
developent fice
Brodie Economic Development 5
‘Rdvsary Commitee 3
H
Tours Secor pines Others as they Workforce
halaapvlashtdlaeal ‘Attraction arise Development

‘Attraction


4.1 SPECIFIC ACTIVITIES FOR
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

Economie Development Strategy | The Ec westment Action Pan |
10 139


cam) men

1
2
3
5
6

Economie Development Strategy | The Economic Investment Action Pan
adopted by Councl, March 23, 2010 | 44

4.2 BRINGING FORWARD
OPPORTUNITIES ON AN
ONGOING BASIS

‘The Brockile Economic Development Committee
(EDC) should comps of sx to eight members. Two
thirds of the members shouldbe fom the private
sector City Staff would usually act asa Secretariat for
the Committe, which would meet atleast monthly.

Reporting into the BEDC, and coordinated by the
Economic Development Office (EDO), the concept
is to have the private sector Task Forces identify
‘opportunites.

‘The EDO then works with the BEDC to develop the best
‘opportunites and to make recommendations tothe
City to move forward on these intiatves, based upon @
vwellprepared Economic Investment Action Case (EIAC)
“see below,

Taking action, and being seen to take action, is
imperative in any public eting, Yet taking acton
without a fll understanding of the implications and
lkethood of success may well achieve the opposite
result that desed, While "thoroughness may
sometimes may be mistaken as ‘delaying’ the taking
‘faction it pay off many fold through the avoidance
‘of ineffective iatves andthe more thorough
understanding and execution of worthihie project,
‘Overtime, the Cty must review and decide upon
support for various economic development natives
brought forward internally and by the private sector.
Selecting wich ones with which to proceed wl be an
ongoing requirement

4.2 ‘CHAMPIONS’

Champions ate the Yorce multiplies’ of economic
velopment and many other Community Missions

Consider thatthe only way fr the public sector to
rectly create jobssby hiring people. While his is
certainly necessary and desrabe in, for example, health
care, education and government, these functions tend
tobe innard looking, n some cases within the local
Jurisdiction and nearly all within the Province. As such,
they serve the neds ofthe Community but cannat
readily provide that citcal element necessary for long-
term sustainability n a competitive word, the export of

‘materials, goods and series for monies that ae then
returned tothe Community through local spending

That latter role usually inthe domain ofthe prvate
Secor and in some instance, the not-for-profit sector

Such Champions acting in concert withthe City
Economic Development Staff, can lead various
intatives, while reporting, at al times, on their
progress. Champions may choose to act out of
CCommunity-minded of altustic interest or may have
2 financial gain to make. The ater isnot ‘wrong!

a5 long as any investment made by governments
Commensurate with the returns expected and which
have been thoroughly vetted through analysis, as

is cscussed in section 4.33, "Making the Care for
Investment

Note that the ultimate responsibility remains frlyin
the hands ofthe Economic Development Function. The
challenge becomes one of encouraging, nurturing,
responding to and asisting these force multiplies’

ta add ther capabilities and energies to achieve the
destable goals

4.3 MAKING THE CASE
FOR INVESTMENT

\When selecting economic development itatives based
“pon.
» Opinion..rather han fact,
» Lobbying..rather than reasoned advocacy
» Superficial. rather than thorough anaes of
feasibility, collateral implications, rue costs and
true benefits

then widespread acceptance and support are much
harder to achieve and the initiative i vulnerable to
critique and attack which il be had to offset unless
all of the homework’ has been accomplished,

The key requirement is o be abl to differentiate
between the various opportunites that are conceved
and to asses the most beneficial othe community
Inthe private sector, comparsons between most
investments are based upon an optimum rte of

return since the focus is almost always on direct dlle
‘generation. na community, while dolar generations a
major element, there are also socioeconomic factors to
be considered.

‘Stakeholders’ are most often the source of ideas,
‘opportunites, energy and investment. What do we
mean by the term “Stakeholder” in the context of
socaecanomic development? Undoubtedly, everyone
in the Community of Brockille has a stake inthe
development ofthe local economy, and most especially,
in the attendant potential for prosper In econamic
development, the term is applied after to those

who do, oF may, contribute directly towards such an
‘economy, through the conduct of busines or not-for
profit activites, withthe accompanying creation of
‘employment. This is nota hard and fast definition and
we can choose to add any person or group who can
assist rectly in economic prosperity forthe benefit of
‘Community asa whole.

‘Although the source is obscure, it has been sad that
“opinions ae formed often on incomplete facs,
‘wsted to suit the protagonists, and sened in a
package ofa etme of bias and personal preference;
‘ive me hard facts an sound eazoning, anyday.” Hard
words bu, when a particular group wishes to convince
the broader public ofa specific course of action, they
‘cannot rely upon ther wn preferences and biases to
make the case. Sol facts and reasoned arguments are
the commen curency of sound and practical decision
making

Reasonably Stakeholders have particular interests that
they must seve (their ‘stake’, The City of Brockuile

is looking for instances where the interests ofa
Stakeholder overans the interests of the Community
a whole, orin large measure. Where so, it may be
possible to create a ‘case to warrant investment by the
Community and, forthe most part, this investment is
accomplished through the use of Taxpayer funds, from
‘various levels of government.

Where the EIAC shows no clear advantage tothe
‘Community, then there sno reason fr the Community|
to parteipate inthe initiative. Potential conflicts of

interest must aso be surfaced in the EIAC such that
they can be made transparent and reviewed.

Please note the terms case’, investment’ and
“Taxpayers, and then consder the folowing points
+ Economic development must be thought of a5.

an investment, not a cost. swith any ather
investment, the ‘investors’ in this case Taxpayers)
expecta reasonable return on their investment, as
well a the prudent asessment, and mitigation,
of risk, nvestors are notin if to lase money and
Taxpayers ae some of the most crtal investors
known,

Further, prudent investors wil not simply take
someone's opinion and invest. Recent high-profile
examples of such folie have been seen in the
media. Instead, they expect to see eidence of
sufficient research on the upside and downside,
how benefits wil accrue and the timing ofthese
benefits. n other words, the ‘ase to which we
refered eater,

Investors ao prefer to see a significant proportion
of investment by the Stakeholders themselves, in
‘order thatthe later havea lary vested interest
in the succes of any such joint initiatives. Right,
investors are sceptical if nly they are taking the
risk and the proponents have, essential, a free roll
ofthe die

[Many Stakeholders have interests that ae very
worthwhile within their ow cl, or which

‘may create broader benefits tothe Community.
However, these benefits are not at least partialy
economic in nature then it wil be dificult to
Create a case that meets the above ctvia. This
doesnot reflect poorly on that particular set of
interests; simply, these Stakeholders can proceed
3s they wish to further their own interests or
work with other ‘missions inthe City, such asthe
environment, health and soon,

In the Socioeconomic Development Mision, not all of
the benefits need be clearly economic but there must
be a substantial element that contbutes towards the
fcanamic goal of the Community Recognizing that
the economy isnot an end initself but a means to

Economie Development Strategy | The Economic Investment Action Pan |

“Adopted by Councl, March 23, 2010 | 4


achieve socioeconomic rospetity forthe Community
there is the opportunity to consider the ‘socio’ aspects
as wel, and these can be added tothe projected
‘economic befits to ceate an overall picture of

the returns. Further, some economic benefits occur
indirectly 2 a resuit of other actives, and these can
also be very val.

‘Those opportunities, or ideas, that have potential
‘an be further developed in conjunction with the

‘The Opportunity

+ Essential an Executive Summary ina paragraph
orto

+ include a description ofthe types of benefits and
ho wil benefit

+ Menton those who will need tobe involved in
‘order to realise the benefits

Nature ofthe benefits
» How wil your Stakeholder Group benefit?

» Community drect economic benefits the
‘nancial return?

‘What are the direct economic gains to be
accomplished?

‘Quantity these in terms of dollars and jobs
‘When wil these occur?

» Community socio" benefits

Describe ather benefits nat quantifiable in
direct dollars

‘These may be health, self-esteem, community
pint, cooperation and so on

Stakeholders and, f feasible, a case can be made for
consideration bythe City aswell as other levels of
government, in order to gain tangible support

‘Some parameters to consider ae shown in Section
4.43, ‘Economic Investment action Case EIAC)

all existing and future funding to organizations made
by the Cty based on economic development benefits
shouldbe reviewed using the discipline ofthe Economic

Assumptions made, with a rationale

» What are the key assumptions made in creating
your opportunity?

» Whats the rationale behind these assumptions?

Barriers that must be overcome
» What i the nature (9) ofthe barirs

+» What must be done to overcome these bari, by
whom and when?

Investment (or costs)

+ To the extent posible, separate out the types of

» Quantify them
+» What will your Stakeholder Group contribute?
Direct dolars?
Resource ime?

Resources required
» What ype of resources willbe needed?
» People?
» Equipment?
» Others?

Investment action Case to ensure thatthe taxpayer
is receiving good value for money in return for their
investment. This approach enables the jurisdiction to
be, at once, hard taskmastrs demanding proof ofthe
likely succes of the venture and, when that proofs
established, confident, and committed advocates of
the effort, monitoring progres on a regular bass. This
‘emulates private sector investor behaviour

‘Timelines: investment and ‘returns
» When wil the investment have to flow out?
> When wil the returns (of all types) be accrued?

Risks and mitigation
» What are the risks?

Internally from the implementing
organizations?

Etecnally from factors beyond reasonable
cont?

» Where possible:
How can each be prevented?
How if they manifest an they be mitigated?

‘Recommended lead organization
» Which organization should lead this effort?
‘Your Stakeholder Group?
A diferent non-government group?

Government (lease specify - municipal,
county, provincial federal’?

4.4 THE ECONOMIC
INVESTMENT ACTION
CASE (EIAC)

In order to minimize the effect of opinion’ and
“influence, clear parameters are required. Eventual ll
ofthese factors, and more, must be considered before
going forward with a particular opportunity. Readers
familar with private sector business cass wil recognize
‘many of these attnbutes and, toa greater o lesser
degree of depth and precision, most of these wil be

at east ‘back-of mind no mater how informal the
project may be

Recommended partner organizations

» Please lst any and all organizations that should be
Patticipants, witha rationale

As active resources
As funding contributors

Measurements of progress
» Defined milestones of what wil be achieved
» Timing
» Critical ‘go-n0 go’ points with criteria
» Opportunites for corrective action

Measurements of success
» Hows success defined?
» Who wall measure ths?
» How will we know when success has been
achieved?

The Taxpayer Investors’ will want to know that these
factors have been considered before their funds ae
invested

Economie Development Strategy | The Economic Investment Action Plan |

“Adopted by Councl, March 23, 2010 | 45


Figure 14 | Leadership for Success

Fearless
‘Darn the torpedoes

Informa
Leaders,
forging

ahead

5.1 LEADERSHIP FOR
SUCCESS

community leadership are being
cal an coon elope
parallel the pube

large deere. The ‘Forma

be achieved that greatly enhances the overall outcomes
ofthe efforts

formaly lead efforts towards
Community. Such people oo
the authorty and responsiblity to

and are usualy

oe to playin these same efforts. Informal
eve ther ‘statu often uneought, through

felis and trough pre bone aces forthe good of

both Formal and
ffect can

Economie Development Strategy | Other Recommendations | Adopted by Counc, March 23, 2010 | 4

5.2 PARTNERING

‘The City of Brockville Economic Development Office
doesnot act alone in socioeconomic development.
pat from receiving support from the functional
‘departments of the City, other groups, both private and
puble, may aso form part ofthe ongoing thrustsin
economic develapment. This is especialy true when the
forma esponsibility for aspects such as education and
training fall outside of the responsibilty of the Cty. The
City can colaborate wit these groups, sometimes with
moral support and, at other times, where a dear return
to the taxpayers freseen, with the provision of funds
‘or inkine contributions.

Partnerships are force multiples’ in municipal
«economic development since, effectively, they leverage
limited municipal funds with the energy, and often
funds, ofthe private sector and senior levels of

government. Such partnerships also demonstrate
‘mutual trust between the local Formal and informal
Leaders ofthe Community. The prvate sector and
‘not-for-profit’ erganizatons area strength that all
Communities can bring to bear with considerable
advantage.

5.2.1 EXISTING AND POTENTIAL
PARTNERS IN ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT FOR THE CITY OF
BROCKVILLE

Te following describe curent or near-term activities
and the esting or potential partners. These wil evolve
and others will beaded over ime,


Economie Development Strategy | Other Recommendations | Adopted by Counc, March 23,2010 | 4)

5.2.2 ACTING REGIONALLY
‘Acting regionally makes good sense when the target
prospect, or vitor is likely to be hundreds or thousands
‘of klometes distant from Broclle. The further away
the target, the es they can effeentiate between
neighbouring municipalities.

\hile economic development actives such as business
retention and expansion must be devenlealy ince
‘these reside in a jurisdiction), the “arg” in business
attraction 5, clearly, somewhere other than local. The
‘objective is o get them interested locally Businesses
do not recognize jursictional boundaries but seek

For Tourism, the economic ates of interest to the Target
Tourist’ may bea tral of several hundred kilometres,
culminating in a destination, Despite all ofthe charm of|
Brock, thefst-ime, more distant tourist may not
plan their sit around the Cty alone. Even Nagara Fas
benefits from other relatively nearby attractions, suchas
Toronto, Nagara-n-the-Lake and soon,

‘Leakage’ is when the local community does nat gain
the fll benefit expected from investments made in
ther community f the size ofthe community is nat
sutficent then nearby larger centres will gan as
itor also take in what such centres have to offer.
‘Asa ‘destination’ ra locale that can become one,
Broce wil stand to benef rom the exposure and
‘other benefits of participating in joint marketing, since
Visitors wil naturally look to such a relatively large, and
‘very attractive centre as @ hub, or major port of cal, on
ther travel

‘The more that jurisdictions combine their efforts, the
lower the individual cost (efienc) an the more
significant wil be the presence onthe radar screen
Sufficient bids fying together can appear to bea large
craft,

5.3 BUSINESS-
FRIENDLY IS NOT JUST
IMPORTANT, IT IS VITAL

The recommended Business Retention and Expansion
program isan excellent opportunity for the City
Economic Development Office to probe this issue
rectly and confidently with Brockvile businesses and
to report back on the findings.

5.4 RESEARCH INTO THE
‘NEW ECONOMY’

The term ‘new economy’ is well worn, yet very
applicable, most especialy in uncertain economictimes.
While the nature ofthe future economy of Ontario, and
Brockile, may not yt be cea, itis certain that wll
be different 1 some extent. Communities that are best
prepared forthe future with fundamental strengths will
be able to adapt tothe emerging economy better than
those who watt untl everything f ces.

The best approach snot to guess atthe future but
ta develop strengths that will most likely be valuable
regardless ofthe emerging economy. Research into
"eca' of “geen” industries is mos likely a valuable
preparation, especially gven the attributes of Brockle

5.5 COMMUNICATING
WITH YOUTH

Understanding the needs of yout, ther perspectives
and challenges and creating hope fr a prosperous
future, may develop postive attitudes towards
furthering their education and, withthe advent of
future employment opportunites, encourage them to
remain in Brockvil

5.6 BRANDING

Enhancing the poste brand of Brock wil elp
in every form of economic development. Getting the
‘message out that Brackileis maving forward to
develop the local economy, how tis going about that
and that its preparing ise forthe future, no matter
what may emerge, will be seen as forward thinking and
reflect well nthe Community.

5.7 POSITIVE SUPPORT
IS ESSENTIAL

FROM ALL CITY
DEPARTMENTS

City and, as such, everyone has a po
requires the active support af all City Departments
nd the protacos between these and the Economic

Economic Development sa function that expected
to push the ervelape of operations; atthe same time
other City Departments propery have 2rle to pal

uch plans and ensure that all necessary considerations
nave been taken into account. is essential

these other Departments approach perceived barriers

Developmen

to find ways too

encountered blockage

Many City actives that fall outside ofthe sphere of
velopment may have a great elect on

rat function. A comprehensive information system

nat can provide such information, tothe greatest

extent possible in electronic form, wl id greatly in

ne efficient functioning ofthe Economic Development

Economie Development Strategy | Other Recommendations | Adopted by Counel, Match 23, 2010 | 54

5.8 ONGOING
COMMUNITY INPUT

‘The establishment of ongoing mechanisms to
‘communicate with the Community of Brockvile on
socio economic development actives are strongly
encouraged. Th facilitates ongaing feedback as to
Values and ideas. It also provides credence to the
concept that, while the socioecanomic development
proces is underway, new ideas are always welcome
and agreed adjustments tothe plans may be made with
suficent rationale and justification.

‘Such mechanisms may indude:
» ACity webpage dedicated to economic

development in Brockile with links to other
relevant sts.

‘When sufficient materials have been prepare,
these can be raised in profile through a separate
City website dedicated to attracting inestors, The
name selected for this website should reflec the
Burpose. Such a move i lave low cast and
demonstrates thatthe Citys very serous in its

Continuation of the <OurBrockile@brackile
com> F-Mal identity whichis outed to the
Economic Development Office

» Encouragement of fax and writen input as well as
face-to-face meetings

» Evolving Community Values will ensure proper
guidance ofthe Mission and new ideas, and
ossble projects wil also emerge from this
Community feedback.

5.9 ECONOMIC DATA
AND RESEARCH

Knowing where you are, what assets you have and
tends indicating the shape of the future are important
tools in socioeconomic development. Recommended
actiites ince:
» An accurate inventory of businesses with
accompanying details.

Knowing what fs current inthe greater ecanomy in
which Brockvile must ext is vital inorder to best
postion rockile, on a continuous bass, to meet
these changing conditions

Research into emerging industrial and business
trends is important f meaningful conversations are
tobe had with target sector fms.


5.10 COMMUNITY
CAPACITY BUILDING

‘Tere are mary definitions of Community Capacity
Bling’ One is

‘Activites, resources and support that strengthen
the sks and abiltes of people and community
‘groups to take effective action and leading roles inthe
development of ther communities.”

In economic development, community capacity
bling focuses on enhancing the future abies

‘of the Community to prosper in a rapidly changing
«economic envionment. Projecting educational and sis
velopment requirements to meet future employment
‘opportunites, identifying necesary infrastructure
improvements to encourage appropiate economic
‘growth as well as promoting callaboration and
parinerships between organizations are some ofthe
crtcal aspects, Communicating effectively with those
charged with implementing these forward-looking
investments is another key element ofthe ole that the
Economic Development Ofice can payin community
capacity building

per Re

5.11 REVITALIZING
‘RETIRING’ BUSINESSES

Develop a “Passing the Baton’ program to sustain and
develop exiting retiree businesses and offer them to
potential entrepreneurs to encourage continuance

+ Consider small grants to bridge the transition cash
demands

» Consider larger subordinated loans to foster
sgroath, standing behind the senior lending

+ Provide the retire with an equity ‘kicker fora
petiod of years o encourage mentoring ofthe new

The retires may aso be interested in mentoring
younger entepreneuts,

5.12 INFRASTRUCTURE
IMPROVEMENTS

Lobby for targeted and modest infrastructure
improvements rather than bilion-dolar blanket
investments designed to support demonstrated private
sector potential and inal success, "Bootstrap the
private sector successes to win addtional infrastructure
enhancements and then repeat this onan ongoing
bass, each bulding upon the other

mendations

Adop


5.13 THE JURISDICTIONAL
COST COMPETITIVENESS
CHALLENGE

This isan analogy drawn from private sector product
price positioning, Firms with a nev product to market
may attempt to dive a price higher and higher until the
ruple revenue per unit tmes tal units sald) starts

From Ato Ball well but the effects of arising pice
tart 1 pact the number of units sold until a peak

is reached. Beyond that peak, heading now towards
yet higher price simply causes poorer financial
performance forthe company.

Tiss often an empirical test and much time and
‘money ae spent in determining when the cure star
0 descend. Unfortunately ifthe downward momentu
isnot checked in time and prices are a ree

00 fay, when a ered s put ino place the curve then
‘doesnot generally flaw the path taken to get there.

In many respects, the market’ punishes’ the company

by forcing the price lower than it would otherwise have
been

The same effect can be seen in jurisdictions.
is very tempting to pass ona higher and higher tax
burden to firms, since firm donot vote pee. The
same applies to higher and higher wages. Aslong as
he peak isnot reached, this brinkmanship wil
9 the shot and mid-erm benefit ofthe Community.
the companies know what is happening and
smedies where possible. Ifthe geographic
tr jurisdictional location of the business cannot be
ready changed then the companies must bear with
his but, fr most comparies, there are alternatives for
heir businesses. Unfortunatly these intentions a
not telegraphed directly to the jurisdiction, athough
complaints and other signs of discontent will be the frst
rumbling

Ultimately the peak of the cur ted, the
Companies stat t fall or move on and the ursdcton
inde tse traveling ‘backwards along the return path,
Uulimately being somewhat worse of than b

peak was reached


5.14 PLAN, BUT DON’T
OVER-PLAN

In this case, the ‘enemys the vagary ofthe future
‘economic envrcrment. Good plans are essential but do
‘ot expect them to be perfect. By definition, any plan
cor strategy is forward-looking, requiring a forecast of
the future. No predictions are perfect, especialy several
years out, 50 it soften most effective to set short-

term goals that can be more reasonably measured and
‘general rections forthe longer-term,

‘An ongoing examination of the evoving economic
Situation and analyses to re-asses the future will esult
ineffective steps being taken to make adjustments

25 the execution ofthe strategy evolves. Thsis the
‘qudded-missie' approach and it's tal thatthe longer
term elements of the plan have an inherent lexbilty
‘that wil facilitate and encourage adjustment asthe
targets move. Ths wl alin the plan to become a
twig plan’ that adjusts with changing circumstance
and, quite possbly the evolving goals ofthe
Community.

The best laid
plans seldom
survive contact
with the enemy.’

— Helmuth von Mo

5.15 CREATION OF AN
INVESTMENT BUSINESS
CASE TO ‘PROVE THE
PROPAGANDA’

Investors regard glosy brochures and general
statements by jursicions as ‘propaganda’. While
the preparation of attractive documents mpertant,
the decisions wil usualy be based upon hard facts, 2
busines ease.

Hf at all possible the EDD should pace itself inthe
role ofthe company or private sector investor, and
determine what isimportant tothe company. Then
Cceate the business case that shows how the region can
meet those needs and how much better the region is
compared 1 competitors.

“The KPMG methadology (Competitive Alternatives)
is very solid and the EDD should ensure tat it
Understands the principles behind this and that it can
reproduce such a work for their local area. Gathering
local data suchas transportation costs, utility costs,
et. s required but the comparison data are already
avalable from KPMG.

“These business cases can be created inital in the
form of generic menus, from which @partcular case,
targeted towards the speci Client and their needs,
can be developed easly: These shouldbe prepared oly
after the full needs and emphases ofthe prospective
investor are dearly understood,

‘These are not glossy brochures to be printed inthe
thousands, Keep afew generic copies on hand, but
print as needed on a high qualty colour printer located
in the EDD office. Tis enables the EDD to customize
the business cases and make later changes as requied.

Preparing the business casein the language ofthe
county of exgin of the prospect shows that you are
seriaus and care about the needs ofthe prospec.
Such translations are an investment that can pay back
handsomely

Economic Development Strategy | Other Recommendation | Adopted by Counc, March 23, 2010 | 55


5.16 INERTIA MAY MASK
PROBLEMS

Inertia i a force that resists movement. nthe case
‘of large operations, the inertia isthe cost impact of
‘moving, and itis considerable. When most large plants
rove, there ae two major costs tobe consider:

+ The physical cst of bulding the new facility
refurbishing an existing building that has been
newly purchased. While assets, suchas processing
equipment may be moved, infrastructure, such
1a: feeder pipes, electrical and gas connections
and, in many cases, customized inter-procesing
conveyance equipment, wil be lost and must be
replaced inthe new building. Costs wil vary widely
but can be considerable.

‘The lost production time and lost opportunity cost
attached to this move. Unless the new fact
tut and prepared for production in parallel with
the continued operation ofthe existing building
Anping even more cst attached to replacing al
processing equipment, then the operation willbe
‘ut of commision (partially or completely for the
{ull duration ofthe move. Ths may take several
weeks and represents a considerable financial

impact. plant with annual revenues of $600
millon is out of commission for ust one month
then the los revere willbe $50 milion and the
‘overall financial impact (the gross margin) may be
30-60% of this gure

This cost must be contrasted tothe bottom-line savings
that such an operation can gain from relocating. In
some cares thee wil be eatvely insubstantial in
Comparisan to the cst, and the tme required to regain
the costs very long. This isthe inertia factor that tends
to keep large processing facies in place, long ater
the original decison to so lacate was made, and long
after the reasons that made the jurisdiction so attractive
have evaporated.

Jurisdictions may sometime use ths inertia to their
advantage. Belving that such plants wil rot ready
‘move, itis tempting to take advantage ofthat poston,
ta the eventual detriment ofthe competitiveness of the
‘operation. Inthe short term ths wil not create a backlash
thatthe jurisdiction must absorb ut, nthe longer run,
the procesing facility may be lost othe locale.


5.17 COMMUNICATING
WHAT IS HAPPENING
IN ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT

Information i the best way to generate enthusiasm for,
and an understanding of, the Ecanomic Development,
process.

‘The Mayor and Council can be the mos effective
‘communicator of whats happening in economic
development inthe City of Brock since constituents
‘wil pay attention ta what i beng sid. being wel
informed, the Counc can show thei commitment 12
the Economic Development Masian and enthusiasm
‘may be garnered throughout the Community.

Further, Council ae frequently asked questions by

ther constituents and the media. 8y reporting these
‘questions t the Economic Development Department
(on a regular basis, the latter can develop and maintain
1 Fact and Information’ sheet that may be used by
‘Cour to respond, and which may be posted or ssued
publely from time to time.

Econo

jc Development Strategy | 0

Every majriitiative should be well publicized andthe
assumptions stated tha le behind the iniatwe. As
witha ovestmens, not all ventures wil pave to be
succesful. When this happens, itis best to state ths
public, eal simply and with easons. Then move
fn Thisis an instance where the vocal support ofthe
Champions, rather than ‘tcl eters tothe Editor is
Socriticalin support ofthe efforts ofthe City

mmendat unl, March





(7) SEPARATE SUPPORTING
DOCUMENTS


