Page 1 of 52

Economic Development and

Planning Committee
Tuesday, February 6, 2018, 6:00 pm
City Hall, Council Chambers

Committee Members Areas of Responsibility
Councillor, M. Kalivas Economic Development Econamic Development
Chair Planning Advisory Team
Councillor J. Baker Chamber of Commerce Museum Board
Councillor L. Bursey DBIA Ubrary Board
Councillor D. LeSueur Heritage Brockville Arts Centre
Mayor D. Henderson, Tourism
Ex-Officio

Page PUBLIC MEETING

AGENDA
Report
2-6 1. 2018-01-02

Proposed General Amendment to
Zoning By-Law 050-2014

THAT Report 2018-011-02 be received as information and that a
report, including final by-law on this matter be prepared by Staff
for consideration of the Economic Development Planning
Committee at a future meeting.

7-52 2. 2018-012-02
Proposed Zoning By-Law Amendment to
Zoning By-Law 050-2014,
137 George Street and Trinity Church Lands, Brockville

THAT Report 2018-012-02 be received as information and that a
report on this matter be prepared by Staff for consideration of the
Economic Development Planning Committee at a future meeting.

Page 2 of 52

26Jan18
REPORT TO THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE - PUBLIC
MEETING ~6 FEB 2018

2018-01-02

PROPOSED GENERAL AMENDMENT D. DICK
TO ZONING BY-LAW 050-2014 DIRECTOR OF PLANNING (Acting)
CITY OF BROCKVILLE ANDREW MCGINNIS.
FILE: D14-026 2202010) PLANNER I
RECOMMENDATION

THAT Report 2018-01-02 be received as information and that a report, including a final
by-law on this matter be prepared by Staff for consideration of the Economic
Development Planning Committee at a future meeting

PURPOSE

To provide information for purposes of conducting a Public Meeting under the Planning
‘Act respecting a General Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 to
‘add Micro-Breweries, Micro-Distileries and Wineries to all Mixed Use (MD, MW and
MC) Zones.

BACKGROUND

Staff regularly undertakes a review of issues raised through the usage of the City’s
Comprehensive Zoning By-law. The frequency of such review ensures the continued
effectiveness of the by-law to regulate land use and development within the City, and
provides an opportunity to incorporate new policy directions and/or legislative
requirements when necessary.

Since Zoning By-law 050-2014 was passed (10 June 2014), Staff have had multiple
inquiries relating to Micro-Breweries and Distileries within the Mixed Use Zones of the
City. Under the current by-law these uses have been classified as employment uses
and are only permitted within the Employment Areas of our City due to the possible
size, massing and distribution aspects of these businesses. Smaller scale business
‘models were never anticipated at the time of inception of the zoning by-law.

Staff have been actively reviewing zoning provisions, definitions and requirements for
the proposed uses and now in a position to recommend changes be brought forward
where the effectiveness of the By-law will permit these Micro-Breweries, Micro-
Distileries and Wineries within the Mixed Use Zones of the City.

ANALYSIS

It is Staff's opinion that to ensure continued effectiveness of the City's current Zoning
By-law, it is necessary from time-to-time to address inquiries and consider general

Page of 52

20s.011.02 Page 2
Public Meeting - Proposed General Amendment to Zoning By-Law 050-2014
File: D14-026purcn

‘amendments and uses on a go forward basis that will benefit the entire City, not just
‘specific properties which is generally the case through site specific zoning amendments.

Currently, Zoning By-law 050-2014 does permit Breweries, Distilleries and Wineries,
however, under the definition of “Manufacturing” and “Distribution” and is permitted
within the City’s Employment Zones (E1, E2 and E3) only. The proposal is to permit
these uses within the Mixed Use Zones around the City but on a much smaller scale
than intended for the Employment Areas.

‘The Mixed Use Zones intended for these amendments include the MD - Mixed Use
Downtown Zone, MW ~ Mixed Use Waterfront Zone and the MC - Mixed Use and
Corridor Zone (this zone encompasses the 1000 Island Mall and the former Zeller’s
Plaza). See Schedule “A” attached to this report for a map showing the proposed
zones in which this amendment would apply

‘These Micro-Breweries, Micro-Distileries or Wineries will by definition include a retail,
restaurant and/or sampling area component, where the products being produced are
available for sale and/or service to customers on-site, thereby supporting the
‘commercial intent of the Mixed Use Zones. The proposal also provides for such an
operation to sell or distribute products for resale at other locations.

More specifically, staff are proposing the following amendment to permit Micro
Breweries, Micro-Distileries and Wineries within the Mixed Use Zones of the City

Where permitted, “Micro-Breweries, Micro-Distilleries or Wineries’ are:
© Required to include retail and/or restaurant and/or sampling area

‘component;

* Permitted to have an outdoor patio area (subject to outdoor patio
regulations);

‘Restricted to a maximum building footprint of 929.0 square metres,
including storage,

+ Not permitted to have outdoor storage;

+ Required to contain a minimum of one (1) loading space on-site;

* Not to cause nuisance due to noise, odour, dust, fumes, vibration or
glare.

+ Required to have a minimum of 50% of the building frontage to be
retail and/or restaurant and/or sampling area component and must
extend a minimum of 10.0 metres from the building face into the
building

Proposed definition:

“Micro-Breweries, Micro-Distilleries or Winery” means a building used
primarily for the production and distribution of beer, cider, wine or alcoholic
products and must include retail and/or restaurant and/or a sampling area
‘component.

Page 4 of 52
aoisart.a2 Pages

Public Meeting - Proposed General Amendment to Zoning By-Law 080.2014

File: 14-026 ne

Comments Received:

1. Brent Caskenette, Chief Building Offical
‘© Micro-Breweries and Wineries are classified as F3 — Low Hazard
Industrial Occupancy. As such, they can be located next to all uses

permitted under the OBC but only with substantial fre separation.

‘© Distilleries are classified as F1-High Hazard Industrial and are restricted
as to location next to other occupancies. Example, they cannot be located
adjacent to a residential occupancy in any instance

‘+ Additional consideration should be given to permitted locations under the
Zoning By-iaw and this amendment.

2. ©. Cosgrove, Director of Operations
The Operations Department has no comments with respect to the
Proposed amendment.

2. Steven Allen, Environmental Services, Supervisor of Engineering
+ Not opposed to the application; However, Environmental Services wil
need to confirm the City’s infrastrucure's ability to accommodate the
development based on its location. Environmental Services will also
require water supply and sewage discharge demands. in the pre-
consultation stage. The proposed development site wil also need to meet
the sewage discharge requirements established in the City's Sewer Use

By-Law.

3. Sandra MacDonald, City Clerk
‘© Nocomments,

4. Robert Nolan, Director of Economic Development.
‘= Noconcems with the proposed amendment.

5. Greg Healy, Chief Fire Prevention Officer
‘+ No concems with the proposed amendment as it pertains to the “Micro-
Brewery and/or Winery”
* We do have concem with a Micro-Distilery. Discussion between
Planning, Building and Fire around the definition of a Micro-Distillery must
take place prior to approval of this amendment.

6. Wendy Onstein, Chair-DBIA
‘© In support of the proposed amendments. We believe this change will
further support positive development in the downtown catchment area.

7. Mike Dakin, CRCA, Resource Planner
«No comments/concems from the conservation authority.

8. Joan Mays, Health Unit
‘+ No objection to the proposed zoning amendment. However, we want to


Page 5 of 52
aoreort.a2 Page a

Public Meeting - Proposed General Amendment to Zoning By-Law 050-2014

File: D14026enano

remind the City that prior to any building permit applications being issued
for these types of premises, the Health Unit is to be notified. This will
enable a review of the plans and assessment of their business as it relates,
to the Regulations that are enforced by the Health Unit.

7. Alice Coleman, Enbridge Gas Distribution
‘© No objection.

ion

1. Appropriateness of the proposed amendment, permitting the uses within all
Mixed Use Zones,

2. Appropriateness of the proposed specifics (minimums, loading area, etc.)

3. Additional revisions Members of the EDP Committee would like staff to review, if
any.

POLICY IMPLICATIONS

‘The contents of this report are provided for information purposes for the Public Meeting,
Following the Public Meeting, Planning Department Staff will prepare a report which will
include review and consideration of policies that are relevant to the requested
amendment.

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS:

None.

‘CONCLUSION

‘A Report on this matter, including a detailed analysis of the proposed amendments and
‘consideration of the issues raised at the Public Meeting and a recommendation from
Planning Staff, will be prepared for consideration of the Economic Development

Penny Cami a'afeate neo

D. Dick, CPA, CA KMeGinnis, MCIP, RPP, Dipl.
Director of Planning (Acting), and Planner Il
Director of Corporate Service:

B. Casselman
City Manager


SCHEDULE “A” TO REPORT 2018-011-02


Page 7 of 52

26Jan18
REPORT TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE - PUBLIC
MEETING - 06FEB2018

2018-012-02
PROPOSED ZONING BY-LAW AMENDMENT D. DICK
TO ZONING BY-LAW 050-2014 DIRECTOR OF PLANNING (Acting)
137 GEORGE STREET AND TRINITY ANDREW MCGINNIS
CHURCH LANDS, BROCKVILLE PLANNER II
OWNERS: 1850521 ONTARIO LIMITED AND,

1850522 ONTARIO LIMITED

FILE NO.: 14-027 s0.2014)

RECOMMENDED

‘THAT Report 2018-012-02 be received as information and that a report on this matter
be prepared by Staff for consideration of the Economic Development Planning
Committee at a future meeting.

PURPOSE

To provide information for purposes of a Public Meeting being held under the Planning
Act respecting an Application for Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-
2014.

BACKGROUND

Ms. Tracy Zander, ZanderPlan, acting on behalf of 1850521 Ontario Limited and
1850522 Ontario Limited, owners of lands described as Part of Lots A and B and Part of
Lots 23 and 24, Block 44, Pian 67, being Parts 1, 2, 3 and 4 on RP 28R-13889, City of
Brockville, County of Leeds, 137 George Street and the former Trinity Church, has
‘submitted applications for amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014 with respect to the
subject lands.

‘The proposed amendments to Zoning By-law 050-2014 would, if approved, allow the
subject lands to be joined on tile and redeveloped for two (2), three (3) storey rental
apartment buildings containing a total of forty-eight (48) units with associated parking, of
which eighteen (18 spaces) will be located underground,

Currently, the properties are individually zoned with two (2) different zoning
classifications. 137 George Street is zoned R9-1 — Multiple Residential Special
Exception Zone which permits an eleven (11) storey condominium building with a total
of ninety-four (94) units. The R9-1 Special Exception regulations are specific to
setbacks from street lines and reduction to parking with height, the number of storeys.
and the number of residential units all being subject to bonus provisions. In addition,

Page 8 of 52

2o16-012-02 Page 2
‘Application for Zoning By-Law Amendment

137 George Street and Trinty Church (former) Brockville

(wmer: 1850521 Ontario Limited and 1850522 Ontario Limited

File Nos.; 014-027

the zoning had in place a clause for off-site improvements to Rotary Park at a value of
not less than $30,000.00,

The former Trinity Church lands are zoned MD-2 Mixed Use Downtown Special
Exception Zone and permits a variety of uses specific to this property as well as site
specific amendments to setbacks, open space and parking. Other than the general MD
Zone uses, specific uses include a “Museum” and “Micro Brewery” that can be
established on the Trinity Church lands.

The new owners have examined the uses currently permitted and have submitted the
application before the Committee requesting that the properties to be rezoned to permit
‘two (2), three (3) storey rental apartment buildings containing a total of forty-eight (48)
Units. ‘The proposed site specific zone requests the following:

RE-Multiple Residential Site Specific Zone:

‘The site is proposed to be zoned R8-Multiple Residential Site Specific Zone to permit
the two properties to be joined on title and allow the development of two (2), three (3)
storey rental apartment buildings containing a total of forty-eight (48) units and fify-
three (53) associated parking spaces. The site specific zone would address reductions
in setbacks for the minimum exterior side yard, interior side yard and rear yard; a
‘eduction to the setback to parking from a street ine (George Street); and a request to
not require a Children’s Play Area due to the proximity to Rotary Park. A copy of the
‘proposed site plan along with elevation drawings is attached as Schedule “A” to this
Teport. Schedule “B” is a Planning Rationale in support of the amendments prepared
by Tracy Zander, ZanderPlan.

ANALYSIS

Zoning and Official Plan Information:

Official Plan Designation: “Downtown and Central Waterfront Area” within the
“Mixed Use Node" subject to Skyline Development
‘Area Policies and Transitional Area Policies,

Proposed OP Designation No change requested.

Existing Zoning: R9-1 Multiple Residential Special Exception Zone, in
part, and MD-2 Mixed Use Downtown Special
Exception Zone, in part

Proposed Zoning: ‘The proposed R8 Multiple Residential Site Specific

Zone would permit the development of two (2), three
(@) storey residential apartment buildings (as'noted

Page 9 of 52

2o18-012-02 Page
‘Application for Zoning By-Law Amendment

187 George Street and Trinty Church (farmer), Brockile

‘Owner: 1850521 Ontario Limted and 1850522 Ontario Limited

File Nos: 014-027

previously) as well as establish provisions respecting
‘exterior, interior and rear yard side yard setbacks,
parking distance to a street line and remove the
requirement to require a children’s play area.

Site Characteristics: Lot Area: 0.32 Hectares (0.80 ac)
{ence joined) Frontage (George St): 118.3m

Frontage (Gilmour St): 31.2m
Frontage (Clarissa St) 30.5 m

‘The subject properties currently contain the former Trinity Anglican Church building at
the eastem side of the property which fronts on Clarissa Street. The two-storey stucco
annex added to the back of the church building and a large gravel parking area to the
west. Schedule "C” to this report is photos of the subject lands,

‘Surrounding Land Uses:

North: ‘The lands to the north (north side of George Street - immediately across
from the subject lands) are zoned R4-General Residential Zone and are
‘occupied by older two storey single family and semi-detached dwellings.

East ‘The lands to the east (east side of Clarissa Street) are zoned R62
Multiple Residential Site Specific Zone and are occupied by a six (6)
storey residential building (Marguerita Residence) with associated surface
Parking. Continuing on the east side of Clarissa Street, the lands are
zoned MD — Mixed Use Downtown Zone are occupied by a single family
‘dwelling and the Ultramar Gas Bar and Circle K convenience store.

‘South: The lands to the south are zoned MD- Mixed Use Downtown, in part and
T-MD-1 ~ Mixed Use Downtown Temporary Special Exception Zone, in
part, and are occupied by the Leon’s Furniture and Appliance Store with
associated parking, and a chip wagon located on the easter parcel

West: The lands to the west (opposite side of Gilmour Street) is Rotary Park
which extends from Gilmour Street to Beecher Street, between George
‘Street to the north and Buell's Creek to the south. Rotary Park consists of
‘an outdoor skating rink, basketball court, playground, open space and
Butlers Creek with a building fronting on Gilmour Street which is occupied
by the Brockville Gymnastic Academy.


Page 10 of 52
2018-012-02 Page ¢
‘Applicaton for Zoning By-Law Amendment

487 George Street and Trinty Church (former), Brockville

‘Owner: 1850521 Ontario Limted and 1850522 Ontario Limted

Fe Nos: 014-027

Comments Received Schedule “D”

4. B. Caskenette, Chief Building Official
‘+ No concern with the proposal but would like to note that
© A building permit will be required for each new building:
© A demolition Permit will be required for all existing structures;
© Per OBC, separate services shall be provided for each lot and shall
not cross property boundaries and shall be connected to municipal
services. Currently two separate properties,

2. C. Cosgrove, Director of Operations
© The Operations Department has no comments with respect to this
application. A traffic impact analysis was completed for a previous
application which proposed 94 units. As this application is for 48 units,
additional analysis is not required.

3. Steven Allen, Environmental Services, Supervisor of Engineering
‘© Not opposed to the application.

4, Sandra MacDonald, City Clerk
+ Nocomments,

5. Robert Nolan, Director of Economic Development
‘+ No concer with the proposed amendment.

6. Greg Healy, Chief Fire Prevention Officer
‘+ No concer with the proposed amendment.

7. Mike Dakin, CRCA, Resource Planner
‘+ No concer with the proposed amendments. CRCA staff will conduct @
full review at the time of Site Plan submission

8 Jeremy Godfrey, Bell Canada
‘= No concem; however there is a live cable currently servicing the church.
Please contact us prior to demolition.

9. Alice Coleman, Enbridge Gas Distribution
'* No objection,

10. Neighbour
‘© Opposed to the application.
‘© Increased traffic will result in danger to children.
‘© The ‘face’ of downtown Brockville will deteriorate with the addition
of non-picturesque apartment buildings. Rental properties should

Page 11 of 52
2o1e-012-02 Page 5
‘Application for Zoning By-Law Amendment

4187 George Street and Trinity Chureh (former), Brockville

‘Owner: 1850521 Ontario Limited and 1850522 Ontario Limited

File Nos.: 014-027

be move uptown so that we may preserve as much as possible the
historic look of downtown,

© Should Leon's leave and another apartment building be put in its
place, this would further deteriorate the southwest entry to
downtown,

‘© Currently a public location and it should stay so. Should build a
nice park “Trinity Park’ for example or leave the area vacant for
better proposals that fit our beautiful (for now) downtown core of
this fantastic town,

Potential issues for Discussion:

1. Appropriateness of proposed zone being R8 ~ Multiple Residential Zone.
2. Appropriateness of proposed special provisions.
3. Demolition/Removal of Trinity Church,

POLICY IMPLICATIONS

‘The contents ofthis report are provided for information purposes for the Public Meeting,
Following the Public Meeting, Planning Department Staff will prepare a report for
‘consideration of the Economic Development Planning Committee which will include
review and consideration of policies that are relevant to the proposed amendments,

‘CONCLUSION

‘The Staff Report on these matters, including the revisions that have been submitted, a
detailed analysis, review and consideration of the issues raised at the public meeting
land a recommendation from Planning Staff, will be prepared for consideration of the
Economic Development Planning Committee at a future, meeting

David Dick, CPA, CA ‘Andrew McGinnis, MCIP, RPP, Dipl M.M.
Director of Corporate Services and Planner Il

Director of Planning (Acting)

ee

B. Casselman
City Manager


Zoning By-Law

Amendment Sketch SCHEDULE Wa TO REPORT 2018-012-02 isastreet

137 George Street
Lots'W and 23, Part Lots’8'and 24

Registered Plan No. 67, Tq
City of Brockville

ey Map, :
Nts,22% iad

Zoning By-Law Amendment from Residential Ninth

end
Lege #130
[7] tands tobe Re-Zoned
Esaersee Pain space
ZF ramos

nas

[2] sm manoeoerng Ase

a

ie nagar
Duero ste gracing nd popes aoe
ietetclyon ern ote Gea Se
othe coniswing wee rope

these shou fc ear ne cs
tal AType sn ype space sown
ie ces pring ore yes pc
ownimthevneround prina ong one

ipperspvceshownttresoutracestbe | gna 146

George Street

24- Unit Apartment
Footprint = 694.3m2|

Furniture

ing owing er rin SE pce }— parce
ts been roa Sm maneietng an 13889
neater we ipa sn ea
eas Centar seared

wb bse reo Tons Pick
 cieoraee pares
oundeyodinensenctienayacr | 48/150 a
ory Seve om Suey Pan 089
ety foley Smtr ene
Smeg nce 208

fz x = = Fy


‘ST AON

YaST ELEVATION


E
‘EAST ELEVATION ‘WasT BLEvATION
:
See
ql = ——= = =
yi StS
yf =
a ee



Page 16 of 52

SCHEDULE “B” TO REPORT 2018-012-02

Z@NDERPLON,

Your rural land planning experts
January 3, 2018

City of Brockville Planning Department
1 King Street West

P.0. Box 5000

Brockville, ON

GV 7AS

‘To Whom it May Concern:

RE: Zoning By-Law Amendment ~ Revised Planning Report
137 George Street
Lots A & 23, and Part of Lots B & 24
Registered Plan No. 67
Cty of Brockville

ZanderPlan Inc. has been retained by 1850521 Ontario Limited and 1850522 Ontario Limited, to
prepare and submit a Zoning By-law Amendment Application for the property located at 137
George treet. The subject property measures approximately 3,483m2 with frontage on Clarissa
Street, George Street and Gilmour Street. The east side of the property currently houses a
‘church with the west side of the property containing a gravel parking area. There are very few
mature trees or landscaped areas currently on the property. The property slopes down
significantly from east to west as you travel along George treet. The development proposal will
seek to remove the existing church and any structures attached to It and bulld two (2) new 24
Lunt, 3-storey apartment buildings with a centralized parking area. The building proposed on
the eastside ofthe property will include underground parking and an indoor garbage area. The
Zoning By-Law Amendment is being submitted before the Site Plan Application to propose a re-
zoning from Residential Ninth Density - Exception 1 (R9 ~ 1) and Mixed Use Downtown
Exception 2 (MD ~2) to Residential Eighth Density ~ Exception (RB —X) Zone to permit the two
proposed apartment buildings. Once:the new zoning classification isin place, the Site Plan for
the proposal will be submitted. In addition, an Environmental Assessment Report has been
submitted along with a Servicing and Stormwater Management Report.

‘SUBJECT PROPERTY

‘The subject property is located at 137 George Street, described as Lots A & 23, and Part Lots 8
‘& 24, Registered Plan 67, in the City of Brockville (See Figure 1) comprised of Parts 1-4 on Plan

P.O. Box 20148 Perth, Ontario KTH SMG pt 613-284-0600 Tax 815-264-0600 vs zanderpan oom

Paget


Page 17 of 52

Z@NDERPLON

Your rural land planning experts
28R - 13889, The property measures approximately 3,483m2 in size with 30.5 metres of
frontage on Clarissa Street, 118.3 metres of frontage on George Street and 31.2m of frontage
on Gilmour Steet. An existing stone church wth an attached parish hall i located on the east
side of the property fronting onto Carissa Street. A gravel parking area with access off of
George Street is located on the westside ofthe property, Hydro poles and overhead wires are
located on the south sie of George Street and the eas side of Gimour Street abutting the
property. A pedestrian sidewalk is located along Carissa Street abutting the property which
extends pat ofthe way down George Steet, ending atthe sie wall ofthe attached parish hall
near the entrance to the gravel parking area. The property includes two parcels which were
previously severed in 2011. As the proposal includes the entire ste, a Planning Act application
willbe required to merge the parcels back together.

Figure Aerial View of 37 Georg treet

‘The subject property is located within the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area with a
variety of different land uses located inthe surrounding neighbourhood. Lands to the north are
‘mainly lower density single or semi-detached dwellings with a few examples of higher density
development. Lands to the east consist of higher density residential apartments with some
commercial uses fronting onto King Street West. Lands to the south include Leon’s Furniture
and Its large asphalt parking area, as well a the Brockville Gymnastics Academy. Lands to the
‘west consist of some residential uses of varying density and Rotary Park. The Brock Tra is
located south of the property traveling in an east to west direction, The proposed apartment
buildings would be sultabe given the existing mult-residential development already existing to

"P.O. Box 20148 Porth, Onario KIM SMO ph. 613-254-0000 fax 615-264-0000 vant anderson com
Page2

Page 18 of 52

Z@NDERPLON

Your rural land planning experts
the east and could be easly serviced within walking distance by a number of commercial uses
along king Street West.

DEVELOPMENT PROPOSAL

‘The development proposal wil seek to re-zone the subject property in order to construct two
(2) three storey, 24 unit apartment buildings, one at either end of the site, with a central
parking area. The buildings wll front onto Clarissa Street and Gilmour Street respectively with
access to a common parking area coming off of George Street. The east building will include 19
spaces of underground parking with two stalls devoted to barrier-free parking. Access to the
underground will come via the central parking area. Garbage will also be located in the
underground of the east building. The west building will be situated lower on the property, due
to an elevation change on the site, and will not include any underground parking. The majority
‘of the central parking lot, including the two barrier-free spaces, will provide the parking
requirement for the west building. Garbage for the westernmost building will be situated to the
south ofthe building with an access lane for garbage trucks coming off of Gilmour Street.

Upon completion, the site wil house 48 residential units with a total of 53 parking spaces,
nineteen of which wil be underground and four of which will be dedicated for barier-free
parking. The proposed east building will include three (3) one-bedroom unit, fifteen (15) two-
bedroom units and si (6) three-bedroom units spread evenly over all thre storeys. The west
bulling will include two (2) one-bedroom units on the main floor, nineteen (19) two-bedroom
units spread over al three storeys and three (3) three-bedroom with one on the main floor and
two on the third flor. in total, of the 48 units proposed the development wil include five (5)
‘one-bedroom units, thity-fur (34) two-bedroom units and nine (9) three-bedroom units. The
proposed density for the development is 138 units per hectare. This zoning amendment
application is submitted to re-zone the property to Residential Eighth Density Exception (R8-X)
Zone to support the proposal

CITY OF BROCKVILLE ZONING BY-LAW No, 050-2014

‘The subject property is currently zoned Mixed Use Downtown - Exception 2 (MD-2) and
Residential Ninth Density ~ Exception 1 (R9-1) on the City of Brockville Zoning By-Law Schedule
‘A~Map 1 (See Figure 2). The Mixed Use Downtown Zone falls on the eastside ofthe property
comprising the old church while the Residential Ninth Density Zone falls on the west side
‘comprising the attached parish hall and gravel parking area. The R9-1 Zone was originally
established on the property to permit a multi-storey high density apartment dwelling which

Pro. Box 20148 Perth, Ontario KTH SM6 pt 613-254-9600 fax 613-264-9608 wnt Zanderan com
Pages

Page 19 of 52

Z@NDERPLON,

Your rural land planning experts

‘obtained approvals but was never constructed, The entire property falls within the Downtown
‘and Central Waterfront Area as seen on Schedule B to the Zoning By-Law (See Figure 3)

gure 2~Chyof Broke Zoning By-Law 050-2014 Schedule A~ Map

Legend
81 omen Ce ate

man Sete oass "*

7M man tn Hae Am
{SS haba he Tm
si mentaannie stone seo

]— ee stent

‘ime urd ora ncn Sty

uma he og pn en 32)

Figure’ ~ Cy of Brock Zonng By-Law 50-2014 Schedule 8
‘Special rovsons forthe Downtown and Central Watertont Area

‘The Zoning By-Law Amendment proposes to rezone the property from Mixed Use Downtown -
Exception 2 (MD-2) and Residential Ninth Density ~ Exception 1 (R9-1) to @ new Residential
Eighth Density ~ Exception (RS-X) zone to accommodate the development proposal. ection 5.0
of the Zoning By-law provides polices and provisions for Residential Zones identifying,
apartments and group home dwellings as the permitted uses in the R8 Zone. Tables §.2a) to
5.2¢) in the zoning by-law provide residential lot and building requirements. Apartment
‘dwellings in the RB zone require the following

PLO. Box 20148 Porth, Ontario KTH SM6 ph. 615-264-9600 fax: 610-264-0008 wnt zanderDlan com
Page 4


Page 20 of 52

Z@NDERPLON,

Your rural land planning experts

Table 5.2{¢): Lot and Building Requirements for Residential - Multiple Zones
Requirement Use RB Zone
Lot Frontage (min) ‘partment 25.0m
{Lot Area (min) ‘Apartment. ,000.0m2
Front Yard (min) ‘Apartment 8.0m
Exterior Side Vard (rin) ‘Apartment 6.0m
interior Side Yard (min) ‘Apartment 5.0m
Rear Yard (min) ‘Apartment 75m
Lot Depth (min) ‘Apartment 25.07
Landscaped Open Space rin] ‘Apartment 30%
Height (max) ‘Apartment 385m
Density (max) ‘Apartment 160 units [ha

‘The subject property as it sits measures 3,483.3m2 in size with 180.0m of combined frontage
‘on 3 roads. The property has a vertical depth of 30.5 metres with a horizontal depth averaging
114.3 metres, all well beyond the minimums required, including for two buildings on the ste.
With regards to yard setbacks and other provisions, the development proposal requires some
‘exceptions in order to permit the proposed development.

As part of the proposal, both the frontage on Clarissa and Gilmour Streets will be considered
the front yards, with George Street being an exterior side yard and the south lot line abutting
the Leon’s Furniture being considered an interior side, The proposed front yard setbacks to
Clarissa Street and Gilmour Street are 1.0m and 2.5m respectively. The east building includes an
exterior side yard of 4.5m with the west building proposing 1.0m. The interior side yard is
proposed at 4.6m for the east building and 6.7m for the west building. Although exceptions will
be required to accommodate the proposal, several yard reductions have already been
contemplated for this site and are reflected under the current R9-1 exception zone:

Provisions for the R9-1 Zone
2215.0 m2
‘Minimum Lot Fontage 310m
‘Minimum Lot Depth 680m
‘Minimum Front Yard Setback 3.5m
‘Minimum Exterior Side Vard Setback 0.0m
‘Minimum interior Side Yard Setback 0.0m
‘Minimum Rear Yard Setback 15m
17.0 m subject to the bonus provisions
Seen See ee outlined in this subsection

P10. Box 20148 Perth, Ontario KTH SMe ph 613-264-9600 fax 618-264-0000 yan Zanderlan com
Pages


Page 21 of 52

INDERPLON

Your rural land planning experts
Section 6.0 ofthe Zoning By-Law provides policies and provisions for Commercial and Mixed
Use Zones. The east side of the property is zoned Mixed Use Downtown - Exception 2 (MD-2)
which permits a number of efferent uses on the propery. This portion wil also be rezoned
Residential Eighth Density ~ Exception as pat of the zoning amendment application. While the
exceptions created to support the previous proposal ae of Interest, the provisions of Section
6:0 and the permitted uses ofthe MD-2 zone donot appl to this development proposal

‘The zoning table for the proposed development is depicted below showing the current
requirements of the R8, R9-1 and MD-2 zones with the yard and setback provisions for the
Proposed development shown in the R&-X column.

Toning Table or 137 George Stest
Curent Zoned Mixed Use Downtown Exception 2 (MO-2)& Residential Nth Dendy Exception 3 (8-1)
8 Zone
Zone Provision | gtanremonts | Reyerenents | Resirements | Proposed RX
7 (Apartment)
vase mn 7" Lim Gimou
Lot Frontage (min) | 300 = 250m poo
Takhar (win) | 2380002 | 2.2150m2 | ~a,0000m0 3483.32
om (Cars)
Front ard inin) [exiting 25m 0m pean
xeriorSde(nin)_| — Existing ‘om com “Lom, 5m
Interior ie nin) | Best ‘0.0m Som “46m, 67
Rear Yrd (nin) | 0.0m 5m 75m WA
ot Depth (nin). NA 380m 25.0m 305m
Tot Coverage ax) | 80% NA NA 204%
ureereed Ore 10% 30% 30% 305%
Space (in)
sng | THT Oe Gubjectto am point
ce) Existing | onus Provisions) |__185™ 14.2m (Peak)
*5 object to
No.ofstoresimax) | N/A | onus Provisions) | WA 3
‘hens Payarea | 2Sam/unk | —2Semont | “2S enfant Not required
4s (Subject to
Novofunnsind | WA | sonetmetinmy | WA 5
FeO Unis]
Subjet to Bonus
Density (na) WA pd Nectare 338 Uns Ha
arling Location | Interior and Tnterorand | — Exterorade yard
reat yrds tearyads |
Pang ‘spaces Ei / unit 11/ unit ian
4 i ane bonus provsians pemit up Yo 37.0m height, maximum OF rey, and
‘

P.O. Box 20148 Perth, Ontario KTH ale ph 618-254-9600 fax 616-264-9600 wan zanderlan com
Page


Page 22 of 52

@NDERPLON

Your rural land planning experts

Given that the subject property has already been contemplated for high density residential
evelopment, with several yard exceptions and bonus provisions already permitted, the
evelopment proposal and re-zoning ofthe property to permit two apartment dwellings would
be suitable and appropriate. The current property is large enough in terms of frontage and area
to accommodate two apartment buildings. The R9-1 zone in place already permits a 0 metre
exterior side yard, which is required as part of this proposal to accommodate the proposed
parking area. The proposed zoning by-law amendment from Mixed Use Downtown - Exception
2 (MD-2) and Residential Ninth Density ~ Exception 1 (R9-1) to Residential Eighth Density ~
Exception (R8-X) would be consistent withthe City of Brockville Zoning By-Law 050-2014.

CITY OF BROCKVILLE OFFICIAL PLAN

‘The subject property is designated Downtown & Central Waterfront Area on the City of
Brockville Official Plan Schedule 1 (See Figure 4) with Schedule 2 showing the permitted
number of storeys on the west half of the site being 11 (See Figure 5). There are no heritage
features or constraints identified forthe property on any Offical Plan Schedules.

Figure 4 Excerpt of Offa Pon Sehedule 1 Fiqure 5 Excerpt of Ofilal Plan Schedule

Section 4.2 of the City's Official Plan sets forth policies and provisions for the Downtown &
Central Waterfront Area. Section 4.2.1 states “this area represents the broadest dlversity of
land uses... achieving the desired mix of uses shall be achieved by encouraging intensification
‘and the redevelopment of existing vacant and underutilized sites." The subject property is an
‘example of an underutilized site containing an old church and unused gravel parking area.
Intensification and redevelopment of the site with two new 24 unit apartment dwelings would
significantly increase residential density of the area in proximity to the various uses and
amerities located in the Downtown & Central Waterfront Area. Apartment buildings are a
permitted use inthis designation per section 4.2.2.2 ofthe Official Pan.

ro Box 20148 Perth, Ontario KTH SMG ph 613-254-9500 fax 613-264-9608 yan Zandra com
Poge7

Page 23 of 52

Z@NDeERPLON,

Your rural land planning experts
Section 4.2.3 of the Offical Plan sets forth Land Use & Built Form Policies within the Downtown
& Central Waterfront Area. In total, there are 24 provisions listed with several subsections
throughout. Due to the length of Section 4.2.3, only those provisions directly relating to the
subject property and / or proposed development will be listed and addressed with regards to
their conformity with the Official Plan. Those provisions are as follows:

1. New development in the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area shall ensure that
proper building frontage is maintained and that the proposed uses do not negatively,
Jmpact the planned function of the area.

2. New development sholl be consistent with the City’s approved Downtown and
Waterfront Master Plan and Urban Design Strategy.

3. The height and massing of the building shall have regord to the height and massing of
‘the buildings on any adjacent property and may be subject to additional setbacks, height
‘restrictions, or landscaping to provide an appropriate transition.

4, For residential units, the development shall be adequately serviced by parks and schoo!
fociities,

5. All required parking shall be provided on the site or in a shared fociity having adequate
opacity within 150 metres of the subject lands. Appropriate parking standards for the
Downtown and Central Waterfront shall be established in the Zoning By-law.

6. For developments incorporating smallscale apartments, block townhouse dwellings and
Similar medium profile residential buildings, on-site recreational facilities or amenities
‘such as private open space or playground equipment may be required.

7. For developments with @ potential to impact the trafic patterns of the area, a report
‘shall be provided by the proponent identifying the adequacy of the road network to
‘accommodate the expected trafic flows, in association with policies In Section 2.1.

{8 Development along Main Streets, Secondary Main Streets, and Water Street as identified
(on Schedule 2, shall reinforce the linkages to the waterfront and preserve and enhance
Views, contribute to pedestrian animation at the ground floor level, and provide
‘streetscape elements that improve look, feel, and vibrancy of the Main and Secondary
‘Streets and Water Street.

411, Within transitional areas of the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area identified on
‘Schedule 2, the height, density and massing ofthe development shall be compatible with
the adjacent low density residential uses through the use of appropriate transitions

Fro. Box 20148 Perth, Ontario KTH aMG ph, 618-264-0000 fax 613-264-0600 ww anderpan com

Pages


Page 24 of 52

@NDeERPLONM

Your rural land planning experts

Including but not limited to lower building heights, additional setbacks and buffers,
building treatments, location of parking, and landscaping.

12. The height, massing, orientation and layout of buildings shall promote the creation of a
pedestrian-scaled environment and reinforce the choracter of the Moin and Secondary
Streets and Woter Street

15.For building frontages on George Street (west of Buell Street), Pine Street (east of
Gorden Street) and James Street, o minimum of 50% of the frontage shall be occupied by
<@ continuous building frontage, within a building setback zone from the public right-of-
way as determined in the Zoning By-law, to recognize the character of these streets and
their transition to stable neighbourhoods outside the Downtown and Central Waterfront
Area.

417, Buildings heights within Skyline Development Areas and Waterfront Development Areas
of the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area shall be in accordance withthe heights
Identified on Schedule 2 and subject to the criteria outlined below. Any development
proposed greater than three storeys but less than or equal to five storeys shall only be
permitted subject to a site-specific amendment to the Zoning By-law and satisfying the
{following criteria to ensure the building height is compatible with neighbouring and uses
‘nd that the development provides a suitable transition with adjacent stable residential
neighbourhoods:

1 Sknature Archtecture ~ Signature architecture above three storeys shall be
required to ensure a high level oforchitecturl treatment and design. Signature
‘architecture may consist of enhanced building articulation through the use of
Astinguishoble orchtectural elements, including cornices and mouldings,
‘materials, and colours consistent with the prominent architecture within the
Downtown and Central Waterfont Area.

1k. Angular Plane ~ An angulor plane consistent with the Downtown and Weterfront
‘Master Plan and Urban Design Strategy shal be required Figure 3.1 provides an
‘example ofan angular plane.

‘i, Downtown and Waterfront Master Plan and Urban Design Strategy (OWMPUDS)
= Development shal be consistent wth the Cys proved OWMPUDS..

19.A minimum ground flor height shal be required for new development with frontage on
Moin Streets, Water Street and Secondary Streets to ensure a consistent ground floor
height. Where ground floor residential uses shall be permitted, a minimum ground floor
height of 45 metres shall be required to accommodate a ground floor that may be
converted to conmercia/retal or office uses. The ground floor shal provide for clearly

‘Fro. Box 20148 Perth, Ontario KTH SMB ph 613-264-0000 fax 619-264-0000 wate Zanseman com

Pages


Z@NDERPLON

Your rural land planning experts
visible/accessible entrances, extensive window openings to accommodate the display of
‘00d/products, higher urban design and enhanced building articulation to provide
‘sual Interest atthe stret.

20. The City shall implement the urban design policies ofthis Plan through the provisions of
the Zoning By-law. The City may require certain design characteristics and/or tools such

‘+ Floor Space index or other measures of density;

‘© Specific materials and colours for building fogades;

‘+ Locations of windows and doors;

© Lond uses at grade;

‘© Continuous/intermittent frontage; and

‘© Angular planes.
22.A consistent building helght of two to three storeys shall be provided at the street edge

to maintain the continuity of the street and consistent roof lines, and ensure that

buildings are presented at a pedestrian scale.

‘The subject property has frontage on three streets with well over the minimum required
frontage for apartment buildings. All uses and parking will be located entirely on-site and wil
not disrupt the current function of the area. Height of the buildings is proposed at 3 storeys,
only slightly higher than many of the single and semi-detached houses in the neighbourhood
‘and shorter than the existing church or higher density uses located to the east. The property is
located within 5 minutes of a school, with Rotary Park abutting the property on the other side
of Gilmour Street. Complete with a splash pad, outdoor hockey rink, skate park, basketball
court and washrooms Rotary Park offers numerous recreational amenities. The Brock Trail also
connects to Rotary Park traveling in various dlrections and providing several linkages to other
parts of Brockville for future residents ofthe subject property. Parking willbe provided entirely
on-site within a central parking area and within an underground parking level whichis proposed
under the apartment fling on the eastside ofthe site.

Invadeltion tothe Land Use & Built Form Policies of Section 4.2.3 of the Official Plan Section 3.4
of the OP addresses Revitalizing Our City with Urban Design policies found under Seetion 3.4.1.
The policies relate to the built form and physical design of communities within the Cy. The
policies of Section 3.4.1 read as follows:

4. The City shal seek to maintain and improve the physical design characteristics of the
Urban Area in the context of new and existing development by ensuring consistency with
‘FrO. Box 20148 Porth, Omar KTH OMS ph 613-264-0000 fax 619-264-0609 wan Zandra com
Page 10

Page 26 of 52

Z@NDERPLONM

Your rural land planning experts
the Downtown and Waterfront Master lan and Urban Design Strategy, and stresing
‘excellence in architecture, urban design and bul form.

2. Through the review of development applications, including plans of subdivision, site
plans and other development proposals the City:

4. shall ensure that new development is designed in keeping with the traditional
character of the City in a manner that both preserves their traditional community
image and enhances their sense of place within the City;

4. shall promote efficient and cost-effective development design patterns that
‘minimize land consumption while providing for safe and efficient municipal
services

ii shall promote the improvement ofthe physical character, appearance and safety
of streetscapes, civic spaces, and parks;

|v. shall encourage tre retention or tree plonting and replacement;

shall encourage design that considers, and wherever possible continues, existing
‘and troditional street patterns and neighbourhood structure; and

Vi. may require, at the City’s sole discretion, that proponents submit design
{guidelines with development applications establishing how the policies of tis Plan
hhave been considered and addressed. Such guidelines may also be required to
address related issues of residential streetscaping, landscaping, setback, signage,
‘garage placement, and architectural treatment.

3. Any development proposed greater than three storeys but less than or equol to five
storeys shall only be permitted subject to asite-specfic amendment to the Zoning By-law
‘and satisfying the following criteria to ensure the building height is compatible with
neighbouring Jand uses and that the development provides a suitable transition with
‘adiacent stable residential neighbourhoods:

|. Signature Architecture ~ Signature architecture shll be required to ensure a high
level of architectural treatment and design. Signature architecture may consist of
screening or appropriate design of roof mounted equipment, enhanced building
articulation through the use of distinguishable architectural elements, including
cornices and mouldings, materials, and colours consistent with the prominent
architecture within the immediate area.

Angular Plane ~ A 45 degree angular plane, as ilustrated in Figure 3.1, shall be
used to regulate the height of tall buildings and ensure they are stepped back
{from the street to ensure an appropriate pedestrian scole and from stable
residential lots to ensure there are no adverse impacts on the adjacent
neighbourhoods.

‘FrO. Box 20148 Perth, OnanoKTH SMG ph 613-264-9000 fax 615-264-0000 wan zandemgencam

Page 11


Page 27 of 52

@NDeERPLON

Your rural land planning experts

ii Downtown Waterfront Master Plan and Urban Design Strategy (DWIMPUDS) —
Development shall be consistent with the City’s approved DWIMPUDS.

4. Any development proposal in excess of ive storeys shall only be permitted subject to a
site-specific amendment to this Plan and satisfying certain criteria to ensure the building
height is compatible with neighbouring land uses and that the development provides @
suitable transition with adjacent stable residential neighbourhoods. The criteria for any
building proposed in excess of ive storeys shall include the following:

|. Signature Architecture ~ Signature orchitecture above three storeys shall be
required to ensure a high level of architectural treatment and design. Signature
‘architecture may consist of screening or appropriate design of roof mounted
equipment, enhanced building articulation through the use of distinguishable
‘architectural elements, including cornices and mouldings, materials, and colours
consistent with the prominent architecture within the immediate area.

1 Angular Plane ~ A a degree angular plane, as ilustrated in Figure 3.1, shall be
used to regulate the height of tall buildings and ensure they are stepped back
from the street to ensure an appropriate pedestrian scale and from stable
residential lots to ensure there are no adverse impacts on the adjacent
neighbourhoods.

li Bonusing Provisions ~ in exchange for an increase in height, the bonusing
provisions of Section 37 of the Planning Act shall be utilized in exchange for
‘additional community benefits, which may include improvements to the adjacent
public realm, public rt, and park and open space improvements.

|v. Toll Building Guidelines ~ Development proposed in the Skyline Development
‘Areas or over five storeys in the City shall be consistent with the Plan's urban
<esign policies which outline additional design guidelines for tll buildings that
relate to massing, views and vistas, point block development standards that
‘mitigate shadow overlays, view obstructions and additional step back
requirements for towers above three storeys, building placement, and
architecture.

Downtown and Waterfront Master Plan and Urban Design Strategy (DWMPUDS)
= Development shall be consistent withthe City’s approved DWMPUDS.

5. A minimum ground floor height shail be required for new development with frontage on
‘Main Streets, Water Street and Secondary Streets or in a Mixed-use and Commercial
‘Area to ensure a consistent ground floor height. Where ground floor residential uses
shall be permitted, « minimum ground fioor height of 4.5 metres shall be required to
‘accommodate a ground floor that may be converted to commercial/retall or office uses.

P.O. Box 20148 Perth, Ontario KTH GMa ph 613-264-9000 fax 619-264-9609 wine ZandeDian com
Page 12


Page 28 of 52

@NDeERPLON

Your rural land planning experts
‘The ground floor shall provide for clearly visible/accessible entrances, extensive window
‘openings to accommodate the display of goods/products, higher urban design and
enhanced building articulation to provide visual interest atthe street.
6. The Gity shail implement the urban design policies ofthis Plan through the provisions of
the Zoning By-law. The Cty may require certain design characteristics and/or tools such
* Floor Space Index or other measures of density;
+ Specific materials and colours for building fagades;
Locations of windows and doors;
Land uses at grade;
Continuous/intermittent frontage; and
‘Angular planes.

7. Measures shall be token to ensure that the permitted uses address compatibility with
‘adjacent land uses. Adequate separation buffering or screening shall be provided
between any uses where land use conflicts might be expected, such as the provision of
{grass strips and appropriate planting of trees and shrubs, berms or fence screening, and
‘other means as appropriate. Modifications to building orientation may also represent
‘appropriate buffering measures.

8 Wherever possible, new development shall be oriented toward streets or parks
Development design that establishes reverse lotting on City roads or requires features
‘such as noise attenuation or privacy fencing, in accordance with Section 3.7.2, shall
‘generally not be permitted. However, reverse-lotting may be permitted along Collector
Roads and Arterial Roads, at the discretion of the City and subject to the provision of
Uniform noise attenuetion or privacy fencing and a suitable maintenance program to the
satisfaction of the City, in accordance with Section 3.7.2.

9. The City shall require that infil developments be compatibly scaled and designed to
‘enhance the character ofthe oreo.

10. Streetscaping that reflects the intended character of the City shall be encouraged. In
particular, contextually appropriate streetscaping and public realm features shall be
requited in the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area, and the Mixed Use and
Commercial Nades, at the cost of the proponent

41. The City, in consultation with a development proponents), shall define a style of street
{furnishing that should include shared and accessible bicycle racks, garbage and recycling
receptacles, benches and street lamps to be used in a new development. The City may

P.O. Bax 20148 Perth, Onlano KTH SMG ph 613-264-9000 fax 612-264-9609 wan Zandra com

Page 13


Page 29 of 52

@NDeERPLON

Your rural land planning experts

consult, os appropriate, the Brockville Municipal Accessibilty Advisory Committee
(@MAAC), the DBIA, and/or the Heritage Brockville Committe.

412. Ahigh quality of architecture and site design for institutional uses such as schools, places
of worship, community centres, libraries and other public service buildings shall be
encouraged.

13. high quality of park and open space design shall be strongly encouraged. The land for
‘parkland dedication shall be carefully selected to facilitate its use as a central focal paint
{for new or existing neighbourhoods.

114. Public art in the City shall generally be encouraged to Incorporate themes supporting
‘and promoting local history, civle pride, creathity, businesses and technology. The
provision of public art in the Downtown and Central Woterfront Area shall be
‘encouraged, particularly with larger development proposals. The City may consider
ranting increases in height or density for a particular development proposal in
‘exchange forthe provision of public art in accordance with Section 64.3.

45. The City shall promote the integration and accessibility of community uses including
schools, municipal facilities, institutional uses, parks and open spaces and recreational
uses through pedestrian, cycling and tral linkages. The City shall require the provision of
certain pedestrian, cycling and trail linkages through the development approvals
process, n accordance withthe policies ofthis Plan

16. The City may undertake the preparation of master plans and urban design strategies to
‘achieve the policies of this Section forall or parts of the City, particularly the Mixed Use
‘ond Commercial Nodes, and any additional studies that would complement the
Downtown and Waterfront Moster Plan and Urban Design Strategy (OWMPUDS). From
time to time, the DWMPUDS should be reviewed and updated,

417. The City shall encourage development design that considers the principles of Crime
Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED). Specifically, the City shall encourage
proponents of new development to situate buildings on lots to maximize natural
surveillance and to use appropriate lighting to deter crime.

418. The City shall require municipal addressing to be clearly displayed in order to facilitate
response by emergency services.

419. The City shail consider locating utilities within the public rights-of-way as well as on
privote property. Utiities shall be clustered or grouped where possible to minimize visual
impact. The City encourages utllty providers to consider Innovative methods of
Containing utility services on, or within streetscape features such as gateways, lamp

P.O. Box 20148 Porth, Ontario KTH SMG ph 61-24-9600 fax 610-264-0000 vane zanSerlan Som

Page 14


Page 30 of 52

@NDeERPLON

Your rural land planning experts
posts, transit shelters, when determining appropriate locations for large utiity
‘equipment and utilty cluster sts.

20. The City shall review the design and layout of parking areas in accordance with the
policies ofthis Pan

21. The Cty may establish an Architectural and Urban Design Review Committee, or any
other Committee, to assist in reviewing studies or components of development
applications. The City may also require a peer review, at the cost of the proponent, of
any studies submitted as part of the review of development applications.

‘The development proposal i for two (2} apartment buildings consisting of three storeys each,
as such the policies of Section 3.4.13 and 3.4.1.4 for development exceeding three storeys and
five storeys respectively do not apply. The proposal is seeking a residential infil development
within the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area, described In Section 4.2.1 as having the
broadest diversity of land uses in the City. Abutting residential uses are either multi-storey
single dwellings or apartments which would make the proposal compatible in terms of
surrounding land uses. Development is oriented toward Gilmour and Clarissa Streets as well as
Rotary Park pursuant to Section 4.3.1.8. The proposed infil i suitable with surrounding uses
and will enhance the character of the area compared to the existing gravel parking area and
lunused church occupying the property. Site plan detalls relating to furnishings, bike racks,
‘garbage, ete, have been shown conceptually on the Zoning sketch and will be dealt with in
greater detall atthe Site Plan stage. Accessibilty has been considered through the inclusion of
barrier-free dwelling units and ample barrier-free parking designed per the Accessibilty for
Ontarians with Disabilities Act (AODA). The proposal complies with the Brockville Downtown
‘and Waterfront Master Plan and Urban Design Strategy (DWMPUDS) which is addressed in the
‘ext section of this report. Therefore, the proposal complies with the urban design policies of
Section 3.4.1 ofthe Official Plan,

‘The subject property is identified as being within a Transitional Area in the City's Downtown &
Central Waterfront Area. Inthe past, aZoning Amendment was completed permitting up to 11
storeys on the site. This proposal wil see a significantly scaled down project of two, (2) three
storey buildings that wil be more compatible with the existing heights and densities of
development in the surrounding neighbourhood. Though the site's longest frontage is on
George Street, the property also fronts onto Clarissa Street and Gilmour Street. The proposed
pedestrian entrances to the respective buildings will come via these frontages while vehicle
access to the parking area will come off of George Street. As previously stated, Schedule 2 to
the Official Plan permits up to 11 storeys on the R9-1 portion, but only 3 storeys are proposed.

‘FlO- Box 20148 Perth, Oniaro KIM OMS ph. 615-264-0000 fax 6152640000 wan Zandersan com
Page 15


Page 31 of 52

Z@NDERPLON

Your rural land planning experts

‘The three storeys will continue to the street edge to ensure continuity with surrounding roof
lines. Subject to the completion of any required studies, the subject property conforms with the
polices of Section 4.2.3 of the Official Plan.

‘BROCKVILLE DOWNTOWN & WATERFRONT MASTER PLAN & URBAN DESIGN STRATEGY

‘The City's Downtown & Waterfront Master Plan & Urban Design Strategy was adopted by
Council in December of 2009 to recommend strategies and guidelines relating to the
Downtown and Central Waterfront Area and to update to the existing Waterfront Master Plan,
1991. The Downtown and Waterfront Master Plan encompasses the City's downtown, the
central waterfront and the St. Lawrence Parks and Islands (See Figure 6). The subject property
falls on the western boundary of the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area.

Figure ~ Location of Subject Property within
‘The Downtown & Cntral Waterfront Area

Section 2.1 of the Downtown & Waterfront Master Plan & Urban Design Strategy sets forth the
goals and objectives ofthe Plan. Section 2.1.2 ~ Sustainable Downtown & Waterfront Goal lists
the following goals:

‘© To balance the use ofthe City’s Islands

PLO. Box 20148 Porth, Onario KTH SMG ph 6132649600 fax 615-264-9609 yay Zanderban com

Pogo 16

Page 32 of 52

Z@NDERPLON,

Your rural land planning experts
+ Torevitaze the downtown area.

‘+ To protect and enhance the waterfront as an active and publicly accessible place, and to
promote the redevelopment and future uses along the waterfront, while maintaining the
existing built character.

‘To ensure that new development and redevelopment in the DCWA Is subject to
‘enhanced control/protection in order to malntaln the unique built hertage/architectural
Identity ofthe area.

To require thot ail new development has considered environmental impacts and is
subject to sustainable and energy efficient development and design standards

* To coordinate pedestrian, cyclist and motor vehicle trafic and circulation to and within
the downtown and waterfront areas inorder to ensure accessibility and to promote the
Viability ofthese areas.

‘+ To strengthen the role of the City’s downtown area as a multifunctional, economic
centre, serving the immediate area as well as the greater region.

‘+ To preserve and enhance the unique character and experience of the downtown area
‘and to ensure that it remains vibrant and attractive to residents and vistors alike, for its
culture, shopping, and attractions.

‘+ To grow and promote the City's tourism industry, amenities, and events, wth a focus on
the downtown and waterfront areas.

* To develop incentive programs to ensure participation by the private sector in business
development, investment, and downtown revitalization,

‘The proposed development does not affect any ofthe Citys islands no isthe property located
‘long the waterfront area. The proposal will conform to the Land Use and Built Form policies of
Section 4.2.3 ofthe Offical Plan maintaining the character ofthe surrounding neighbourhood.
Environmental impacts have been considered forthe development with a Grading and Drainage
design completed for the proposal to minimize of-ite impacts, Lands designated Open Space
and Environmental Protection are located to the west but ae separated from the property by
Rotary Park, Residents of the proposed buildings will have direct access tothe Brock Tail which
provides access tothe waterfront parks and several other areas ofthe City. The introduction of
48.apartment dweling units wil significantly increase the population of the Downtown and
Waterfront Area in proximity to various services and amenities provided within the Downtown,
Given the property location on the border of the Downtown and Waterfront Area, the
development will have litle ton impact on the waterfront itself but wil serve to inerease

‘FrO. Box 20148 Perth, Onano KTH SMB ph 613-264-0600 fax 615-264-9600 sane zandemiancamn
Page 17


Page 33 of 52

@INDERPLON

Your rural land planning experts
densty by re-developing an existing underutilized property and enhancing te bul form ofthe
‘area through the development of vacant parking lot lands. Bul hertageof the area will not be
afected by the development proposal

‘The Downtown & Waterfront Master Plan & Urban Design Strategy further alms at creating a
vibrant, healthy liveable and sustainable community through the use of several urban design
principles. These principles are found under Section 4.0:

deity ~ Create o unique identity and enhanced sense of place through all public.
realm measures by enhancing community character, establishing
distinctive areas and streets (theming), continuity in the extension of the
Gity’s urban fabric, and development of @ unique skyline while
‘maintaining ond enhancing important views.

Connectivity- __Re-establish the relationship of the City to the waterfront and facilitate
limproved connectivity and accessibility between the downtown and
central waterfront.

Heritage - Preserve and enhonce the City’s rich architectural and community
heritage and character.

Permeability- Improve the network of public spaces, trolls and access to the waterfront
_by minimizing physical barriers to movement and encouraging wolkability

Diversity = Encourage places with a good range and mix of nd uses that are easily
‘odaptable.

Pedestrian Priority - Minimize conflicts between pedestrians, cyclists and vehicles by giving
priority to pedestrians and cyclists in appropriate locations.

Continuity = Provide places where public and private spaces are easily distinguished
while providing continuity and connectivity

Legibility = Provide ploces thot are easy to navigate and quide people to key
locations, by emphasizing points of reference, landmarks, heritoge
buildings, et.

Quality - Provide attractive and successful public spaces that incorporate sensitive

lighting, signage, materials and furnishings, and integrate public art.

‘Sustainabitity- Provide places which promote the conservation of natural resources, are
{fiscally responsible and encourage social dversity and interaction

P.O. Box 20148 Porth, Onlano KTH GM ph 613-264-9000 fax 615-261-0600 wan Zander com

Page 18


Page 34 of 52

INDERPLON

Your rural land planning experts

Preserve and enhance important focol points, views and vistas of the
waterfront.

‘The subject property currently houses an old church with the west side of the property used as
a gravel parking area. The church itself has become unused and surplus to the City’s needs in
the last few years and its location within the Downtown and Central Waterfront is not ideal
Furthermore, the existence of a gravel parking area which is rarely used or exploited to its
Potential does not create any sense of identity for the property In the context of the overall
neighbourhood. Houses on the north side of George Street looking south have no view of the
waterfront instead left with views of only @ parking lot and the rear of a commercial building,
The site currently does little to contribute to a vibrant, healthy, liveable and sustainable
community.

Views

‘The re-development of the subject lands at 137 George Street would see the removal of the
church and the construction of two (2) 24 unit apartment buildings. While part ofthe site will
still be used for parking, the introduction of two new residential buildings wll help give the site
Identity and purpose once again and improve views for surrounding residences. Connectivity to
the Downtown and Central Waterfront wil be maintained by increasing permeability of the site
and encouraging walkablity through the extensive trall systems found close to the property.
Diversity in land use will be achieved by introducing new higher density residential
evelopment in an area predominated by single houses and mixed-use developments. Having
‘one access to the site with underground parking access coming from within the main parking
area will promote pedestrian priority by focusing trafic movement within the property
boundary and not having several access points throughout the site where pedestrian and
vehicle interactions can occur. The introduction of the apartment buildings will improve the
sustainability of not only the property but the entire surrounding area by increasing density
Within the Downtown and Central Waterfront while increasing opportunity and demand for
local businesses.

Overall, the proposed development meets the goals of Section 2.1.2 and conforms to the urban
design principles of Section 4.0 of the Downtown & Waterfront Master Plan & Urban Design
strategy.

PROVINCIAL POLICY STATEMENT (PPS) 2014

‘The Provincial Policy Statement (PPS, 2014), issued under the authority of Section 3 of the

Planning Act, provides policy direction on matters of Provincial interest related to land use

planning and development, and provides for appropriate development while protecting

‘Fro. Box 20148 Por, Ontario KTH aMe ph 619-264-0600 fax O18 204-0000 wn ZaNTeIDAaN COT
Page 18


Page 35 of 52

Your rural land planning experts
resources of Provincial interest. A number of policies should be considered with regard to the
proposed development.
Section 1.0 of the Provincial Policy Statement sets forth policies for Bullding Strong Healthy
Communities. Section 1.1 outlines Managing and Directing Land Use to Achieve Efficient and
Resilient Development and Land Use Patterns, with Section 1.1.1 stating healthy, liveable and
safe communities are sustained by:

©) promoting efficient development and land use patterns which sustain the financial well-
being of the Province and municipalities over the long term;

) accommodating an appropriate range and mix of residential (including second units,
‘offordable housing and housing for older persons), employment (including industrial and
commercial), institutional (including places of worship, cemeteries and long-term care
homes), recreation, park and open space, and other uses to meet long-term needs;

6) evoingdevloment and lon use patterns wih may cus enonmentalo publ
heath ond sey cancers

d) avoiding development and land use patterns that would prevent the efficient expansion
ofsetiement resin thas es whch are adeno cs fo setiement fas

at prometig costae dvlcmert. pete ond standonks to mine Jand
Consumption and sen ess |

fl improving accessibility for persons with disabilities and older persons by identifying,
preventing and removing land tse borers which resvet the fl portpaton In
poe

6) ensuring tht neces hjrasrcture, elect generation facts end trnumison
tnd astibaton tems, and publ src fotives are o il be eval to mec
ont wt rected ona

|h) promoting development and land use patterns that conserve biodiversity and consider
the impacts of a changing climate.

‘The proposed development will promote efficient development and land use patterns by
removing the unused church and gravel parking area onsite and constructing two (2) new
higher density apartment buildings. The new construction will complement the existing range
‘of uses in the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area, described in Section 4.2.1 ofthe Official
Plan as representing the broadest diversity of land uses. While removing the existing church wil
decrease the mix and range of uses, the church is currently vacant and unused, therfore it
‘does not contribute to the range of uses at all within this area. The development would not
‘FlO- Box 20148 Poth, Onlaro KTH SME ph. 615-254-0600 fax 15254-0000 want Zanderlan com

Page 20


Page 36 of 52

Z@NDERPLON

Your rural land planning experts
prohibit settlement area expansion, would minimize land consumption and servicing by utilizing
2 vacant, serviced lot, and would improve accessibility for persons with disabilities by designing
2 barrier-free development with several barrier-free units included within the proposed
‘buildings. Environmental health, public health and safety and biodiversity will not be affected
by the proposal.

Section 1.1.3 of the PPS outlines policies for Settlement Areas, which include cities, towns,
villages and hamlets. The policies of Section 1.1.3 that pertain to the proposed development
are as follows:

1.1.3.1 Settlement areas shall be the focus of growth and development, and their vitality
‘and regeneration shall be promoted.

Land use patterns within settlement areas shall be based on

2) densities and a mix of land uses which:

1. efficiently use land and resources;
2. are appropriate for, and efficiently use, the infrastructure and
public service focilties which are planned or available, ond avoid
the need for their unjustified and/or uneconomical expansion;
3. minimize negative impacts to alr quality and climate change, and
promote energy efficiency;
4. support active transportation;
‘ore transit-supportive, where transit is planned, exists or may be
developed; and
alae Fale cappartve ond
) a range of uses and opportunities for intensification and redevelopment in
‘accordance with the enteria in policy 1.1.3.3, where this can be
‘accommodated.

413.3 Planning authorities shall identify appropriate locations and promote
‘opportunities for Intensification and redevelopment where this can be
‘accommodated taking into account existing building stock or areas, including
‘brownfield sites, and the availability of suitable existing or planned infrastructure
‘and public service facilities required to accommodate projected needs.
Intensification and redevelopment shall be directed in accordance with the
policies of Section 2: Wise Use and Management of Resources and Section 3:
Protecting Public Health and Safety

"Flo. Box 20148 Perth, Ontario KTH SMG ph 613-264-0500 fax 613-264-0600 wit anderen com

Page 21


Page 37 of 52

Z@NDERPLON

Your rural land planning experts
4 Appropriate development standords should be promoted which facitate
Intensification, redevelopment and compact form, while avoiding or mitigating
risks to public heoth and safety.

4.

‘The subject property is located within the Settlement Area of Brockville with the proposed
development serving to revitalise the property and surrounding neighbourhood. The proposed
high density apartment use wil efficiently use land which is otherwise sitting unused currently,
will draw upon current infrastructure and public facilities, will not negatively affect air quality or
climate change, will support active transportation on-site and via nearby tral linkages, and will
be transit-supportive. The City of Brockulle Transit Map shows the property in close proximity
to the Red Bus line with bus stops located at Perth Street and Church Street, about a block
north of the property, and at King Street West and Gilmour Street, half a block south of the
property. The proposal wil involve the intensification of the property and the redevelopment
‘of a brownfield site currently unused within the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area.
‘Overall, the proposal will conform to the Settlement Area policies of Section 1.1.3 of the PPS.

Section 1.4 ofthe PPS outlines polices for Housing which areas follows:

4141 To provide for an appropriate range and mix of housing types and densities
required to meet projected requirements of current and future residents of the
regional market area, planning authorities shall

9) maintain at all times the ability to accommodate residential growth for a
‘minimum of 10 years through residential intensification and redevelopment
‘and, if necessary, lands which are designated and availabe for residential
development; and

) maintain at all times where new development isto occur, land with servicing
opacity sufficient to provide at least a three-year supply of residential units
‘available through lands suitably zoned to facilitate residential intensification
‘and redevelopment, and land in draft approved and registered plans.

4.43 Planning authorities shall provide for an appropriate range and mix of housing
types and densities to meet projected requirements of current and future
‘residents of the regional market area by:

4) establishing and implementing minimum targets for the provision of housing
hich Is affordable to low and moderate income households. However,
where planning is conducted by an upper-tier municipality, the upper-tier
‘municipality in consultation with the lower-tier municipalities may identify a

‘FrO. Box 20140 Porth, Ontario KTH SMG ph 613-264-0600 fax 619-264-9500 wan zandemlan com

Page 22


Page 38 of 52

Z@NDERPLON

Your rural land planning experts

higher target(s) which shall represent the minimum targets) for these
ower-tier municipalities;

>)

permitting and facilitating:

41. all forms of housing required to meet the social, health and well-
being requirements of current and future residents, including special
needs requirements; and

2. all forms of residential intensification, including second units, and
redevelopment in accordance with policy 1.1.3.3;

€) directing the development of new housing towards locations where
‘appropriate levels of infrastructure and public service facies ae or will be
‘avilable to support current and projected needs;

) promoting densities for new housing which efficiently use land, resources,
infrastructure and public service foclities, and support the use of active
transportation and transit in areas where it exsts ori to be developed; and

@) establishing development standards for residential intensification,

redevelopment and new residential development which minimize the cost of

hhousing and focitate compact form, while maintaining appropriate levels of

‘public health and safety.

‘The proposed development will provide 48 residential apartment units at a higher density than
‘much of the residential development in the neighbourhood which would be affordable for low
and maderate income households. The density proposed will use the land more efficiently than
‘the current church and parking area uses with active transportation supported by the various
sidewalks and tall connections around the property.

Section 1.5 of the Provincial Policy Statement (PPS) 2014 sets forth Public Spaces, Recreation,
Parks Trails and Open Space polices stating healthy, active communities should be promoted
by:

2) planning public streets, spaces and facilities to be safe, meet the needs of
pedestrians, foster social interaction and facilitate active transportation and
community connectivity;

2) planning and providing for a full range ond equitable distribution of publicly.
‘accessible built and natural settings for recreation, including facilities, parklands,
public spaces, open space areas, trails and linkages, and, where practical, water-
based resources;

P10, Box 20148 Perth, Ontario KTH SM6 ph 619-264-9600 fax 613-268-0000 wi rangerplan com
Page 23


Page 39 of 52

@NDeERPLON

Your rural land planning experts
€) providing opportunites for public access to shorelines; and

recognizing provincial parks, conservation reserves, and other protected areas, and
‘minimizing negotive impacts on these areas.

‘The overall development has been designed to minimize the number of connections to the
‘open street for vehicles to access the site in order to meet the needs of pedestrians and ensure
their safety. One access off of George Street is proposed with access to underground parking
coming from the central parking area, thus keeping the Clarissa and Gilmour Street frontages
lear of vehicles accessing and egressing the site, save forthe garbage access for the west side
building. The property is in close proximity to Rotary Park offering several recreational
‘amenities, park and open spaces, tril linkages all within a short walking distance. The Brock
Trail which travels through Rotary Park provides linkages in several directions including
providing access to the waterfront and shoreline areas. The development recognizes the
existence of Environmental Protection areas along portions of the Brock Trail close to the
property and will not negatively impact these features. Overall, the development will provide
future residents with several recreational amenities, parklands, tralls and linkages to support

active, healthy community life.

Section 1.6 of the Provincial Policy Statement (PPS) 2014 sets forth polices for Infrastructure
‘and Public Service Facilities, with Sewage, Water and Stormwater policies found under Section
16.6, The following polices of Section 1.6.6 pertain tothe proposed development: |

4.6.6.1 Planning for sewage and water services shall:
4) <direct and accommodate expected growth or development in a manner that
promotes the efficient use and optimization of existing:
1. municipal sewage services and municipal water services; and
2. private communal sewage services nd private communal water
services, where municipal sewage services and municipal water
services are not available;

) ensure that these systems are provided in @ manner that:

41. can be sustained by the water resources upon which such services
rely;

2 Is feasible, financially viable and complies with all regulatory
requirements; ond

3. protects human health and the natural environment;

PLO. Box 20148 Porth, Onano KTH GMB ph 613-264-0600 fax 619-24 9500 sane zandermian com
Page 24 |

Page 40 of 52

@NDERPLON

Your rural land planning experts
promote water conservation and water use efficiency;
4) Integrate servicing and land use considerations at all tages of the planning
process; and
) be in accordance with the servicing hierarchy outlined through policies
1662, 1663, 1664 0nd 1665.
1.6.6.2 Municipal sewage services and municipal water services are the preferred form
of servicing for settlement areas. Intensification and redevelopment within
settlement areas on existing municipal sewage services ond municipal woter
services shouldbe promoted, wherever feasible.
1.6.6.7 Plonning for stormwater management shal:
(0) minimize, or, where possible, prevent increases in contaminant loads;
+) minimize chonges in water balance and erosion;
¢) not increase risks to human health and safety and property damage;
d) maximize the extent and function of vegetative and pervious surfaces; and
€) promote stormwater management best practices, Including stormwater
attenuation and re-use, and low impact development.

‘The property is located within the City of Brockville and is on full municipal sewage and water
services which are preferred within Settlement Areas. The proposed intensification and
redevelopment would occur on these existing services. A grading plan and servicing plan have
bbeen prepared for the development which shows the existing watermain travellng along
George Street with sanitary sewers located along George and Gilmour Streets. A single
watermain connection is proposed off of George Street which will split onsite servicing both
proposed buildings. Similarly, a single sanitary line for sewage will come off of George Street
‘and will split on-site servicing both buildings. With regards to stormwater management a
stormwater main with a catch basin are proposed on-site which will drain into the existing
storm sewers located along George Street, Retaining walls will be placed on-site to minimize
health and safety impacts and the potential for property damage. The engineering plans and
reports willbe submitted as part ofthe site plan application.

Section 2.0 of the Provincial Policy Statement (PPS) 2014 deals with the Wise Use and
‘Management of Resources aimed at protecting natural heritage, water, agriculture, mineral
cultural heritage and archeological resources. The subject property isa lot within the City of
Brockville and does not contain any natural heritage and water resources that would be
PlO. Box 20148 Porth, Onano KTM SMG ph 613-254-0000 fac 615264 9600 wan zanderDlan com

Page 25,


Page 41 of 52

@NDeERPLON

Your rural land planning experts

affected by development. There are no agricultural areas or designations on or in proximity to
the property for which the development would hinder. No minerals, petroleum or aggregate
resources are Identified and no related uses such as pts, quarries or mines are located in
Proximity to the property. The existing church isnot classified as a cultural or heritage use and
no archeological areas of significance are located close to the property. Given the property Is
‘devoid of any natural heritage or other resources it is not subject to the provisions or policies
found under Section 2.0 of the PPS.

Seetion 3.0 of the Provincial Policy Statement (PPS) 2014 sets forth policies for the protection
of public health and safety by directing development away from natural or human-made
hazards. The subject property does not contain any hazardous lands adjacent to waterbodies or
Fivers, there are no beach hazards present, and no areas where flooding may occur
‘Additionally, there are no human-made hazards in the form of mines, oll and gas hazards,

mineral aggregate and mining operations or petroleum resource operations.

Overall, the development proposal of two (2) 24 unit apartment buildings complies with all
necessary policies and provisions of the Provincial Policy Statement (PPS) 2014.

SUMMARY

‘The applicants are seeking a zoning bylaw amendment for the property located at 137 George
Street to facilitate the removal of the existing church and construct two (2) 24 unit apartment
buildings witha central parking area. The proposed zoning amendment will seek to re-zone the
property from Residential Ninth Density Eighth Density Exception (R8-X) to permit the
development. The eastside ofthe property Is permitted for up to 5 storeys of development per
the Zoning By-Law Schedule B with the westside ofthe property approved for up to 11 storeys
per the Offical Plan Schedule B. The proposal i for two (2) three storey apartment buildings.
‘Apartment buildings are permitted on the property pursuant to Section 4.2.2.2 of the Official
Plan and the development will conform to the Land Use & Built Form Policies of Section 4.2.3.
‘Additionally, the development complies with both the Provincial Policy Statement (PPS) 2014
‘and the City’s Downtown & Waterfront Master Plan & Urban Design Strategy. Site Plan Control!
‘Approval will be sought once the appropriate zoning sin place.

PLO. Box 20148 Porth, Ontario KTH SMe ph 61254-9600 Tax 615-264-0600 yer zanderlan com
Page 26


Page 42 of 52

Z@NDeERPLONM

Your rural land planning experts
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION

ZanderPlan staff confirmed with the City's Director of Operations that a traffic impact study is
‘ot required to support the proposal. In addition, ZanderPlan staff confirmed that there are no
Sourcewater Protection concerns related to this development proposal

‘The application form has been revised to address the comments raised by City Planning staff on
December 21, 2017, and the Amendment request has been revised to reflect an RB-x zone.
Bicycle parking areas have been added to the site sketch, and the garbage enclosure area has
been revised to be compliant with the Zoning By-law. Adeitional site-specific requests have
been added to permit parking in the exterior side yard and to remove the requirement for a
children’s play area, It is notable that this a sketch only, and addtional detals including
landscaping will be added atthe Site Plan Control stage.

We acknowledge that a Planning Act application will be required to consolidate the previously
severed lts, and will work with the solicitor and City staff to process this as soon as possible.

Should you have any further questions please do not hesitate to contact the undersigned,

Sincerely,

ey Spacer

Tracy Zander, M.Pl, MCIP, RPP

FrO. Box 20148 Perth, Ontario KTH SMe ph 619-264-9600 fax 613-264-0000 wnt anderen com
Page 27

SCHEDULE “C” TO REPORT 2018-012-02

2510 ev abe

TO REPORT 2018-012-02

ae CITY OF BROCKVILLE

PLANNING DEPARTMENT -

UILDING SERVICES DIVISION

INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM

To:

FROM:
SUBJECT:

pate:

"ANDREW MCGINNIS ~ PLANNER

BRENT CASKENETTE ~ CHIEF BUILDING OFFICIAL
ZONING BY.LAW AMENDMENT. FILE 014-027

187 GEORGE ST AND TRINITY CHURCH

JANUARY 19, 2018

‘Andrew

Our review of the proposal forthe above noted subject site development has been
‘Completed and at this tme would advise of the flowing:

‘+ A Building Permit wil be required for each new building,

+ ADemoition Permit wil be required for all existing structures.

+ Per OBC, separate services shall be provided for each lat and shall not cross
property boundaries and shall be connected to municipal services. Currently two
‘Separate properties.

No adaitional concems at this time. A complete review will be required at tine of
application fora bling permit.

Regards,

‘ol (01) 342-0772, nt 444 “Pan (49) 400-2799. Email eashoneteabeckyine-com

Page 44 of 52

Page 45 of 52

wyha Golledge

From: CConal Cosgrove
Sent: Jarisary 12,2018 353 PM

To: Andrew McGinnis

ce Dayna Golledge; Steve Alen

Subject: RE!Mema - Notice for Zoning Amendment Application - Fle D14-027
‘Andrew

‘The Operations Department has no comments with respec to this application. A trafic impact analysis was completed
{ora previous application which proposed 94 units. As this application Is for 48 units, additional analysis isnot required.

onal

From: Dayna Golledge
Sent: January 11, 2018 12:36 PM

“To: Conal Cosgrove; Peter Raabe; Steve Allen; Scott Fraser; Greg Healy; Brent Caskenette
‘Subject: Memo - Notice for Zoning Amendment Appcation - Fle D14-027

Good Afternoon,

“Attached you wil find the notice for Zoning Amendment Application D14-027 going to The Economic Development
Planning Committee on February 6, 2018,

Please reply with any comments regarding these applications by no later than January 24, 2018,

It you have any specific questions in relation to these application, please contact Andrew McGinnis, Planner Il, at 613-
342-8772, extension 4421;
‘or emall to: amcginnis@brociille.com

Thankyou,

Dayna Golledge

‘Admnsatve Coordinator - Planing Deparment, Cy of Broce
Wal: One King Steet West P.O Box 5000, Grohe, ON KEV TAS
‘Tol 613.342.8772, ox 4463

Fax 613408 2700,

mal planning@brockie.com

Scot sonal psaget ns rte

Page 46 of 52

[2]

BROCKVILLE
Memorandum BROCKYINE |
Piss bis.a7
bate: saruny 26,2018
To: Andrew McGinnis
From: ‘Steven Allen, C.E,T., M.M.
Frise ariel

Subject! Application for Rezoning for 137 George Street ~ Zanderplan ~ Tracy
Zander, City of Brockville.

‘The Environmental Services Department has reviewed the request to change the
current zoning of 137 George Street from (MD2) and (R9-1) to (R-8) ~ Multiple
Residential Special Exception Zone to facilitate the development of (2) 24 unit
apartment buildings with a common parking area between. The existing church will
be removed to allow for the redevelopment. Environmental Services are not
‘opposed to the application,

SEAsa

Page 47 of 52

Dayna Golledg

From: ‘Sandra MacDonald
Sent: January 12,2018 2:19 PM.

To: Dayna Golledige

Subject: RE: Memo - Notice for Zoning Amendment Application - Fle D14-027

‘The Clerk's Office has no comments.

Sandi

From: Dayna Goledge

‘Sents January-11-18 12:36 PM
‘To: Conal Cosgrove; Peter Raabe; Steve Alen; Scott Fraser; Greg Healy; Brent Caskenette
‘Subject: Memo - Notice for Zoning Amendment Appcation- File D14-027

Good Afternoon,

Attached you wil find the notice for Zoning Amendment Application 014-027 going to The Economic Development
Planning Committee oa February 6, 2018.

Please reply with any comments regarding these applications by no later thon January 22, 2018,

Ifyou have any specif questions in relation to these applications, please contact Andrew McGinnis, Planner I, at 613-
342-8772, extension 4421;

or emai to: amcginnis@brockvile-com

|
Thankyou,
Dayna Golledge

‘Adminsratve Coordinator ~ Planing Deparment Cty of Brockvilo :
‘Mat: One King Sot West P.O Box 5000, rock, ON KBV 7AS :
{el 613:3428772, 0, 4463. |
Fre 615 4062703

Email planninarocie. com :

A rss ts pny ana .
Baumer re fermion mths messages cone and may be egy peed sitended sole forthe

suuresse Actes to is message y enone ese nah yusre ete tended epen yScsu,
be uot Pease mediately canta the ener ty have eed hs mesage never,


— Page 48 of

CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE
RE

REVIEW FORM
FIRE DEPARTMENT

Date: January 18, 2018
‘Address of Subject Property: 137 George Street & Trinity Church

FIRE REQUIRMENTS REQUIRED | NOT REQUIRED
Site inspection a Ey —
Fire Code Updates _o E]
Other: fal a

Fire comments

41. The Fire Department has no conoems with the propased Zoning Amendment forthe
above address

2. This Department wishes to be circulated forthe building permit.


Page 49 of 52

Andrew McGinnis
From: Mike Dakin <MDakin@creaca>

Sent: Januory-19-18 1151 AM

To: ‘Andrew MeGinnis

ce Dayna Golledge; Tracy Zander (racy@zanderplan com); Sean Czaharynsk
Subject: 'D14-027 (137 George St) = CRCA Comments

‘Andrew,

CCRCA staff have received the notice for zoning amendment application D14-027 forthe two apartment buildings proposed
at 137 George Street. Our primary interests for the proposed development are the provision of adequate on-site
‘stormwater management and adherence to source water protection policies.

Stormwater Management
Staff have completed a preliminary review ofthe Servicing and Stormwater Management Report (Robinson Land )
Development, November 2017) and are satisfied, at this time, withthe general stormwater management approach for the
purposes of the zoning bylaw amendment. The approach, as detailed inthe report, is consistent with CRCA stormwater
‘management guidelines, Detaled review of the report and SWM design will be completed as pat of the CRCA’s review at
the Site Plan Control stage. We will provide additional comments at that time.

Source Water Protection
‘The locaton ofthe proposed two apartment buildings a 137 George Street inthe City of Brockville fs within PZ-2of the
Brockile ntake Protection Zone. A summary ofthe relevant policies from the Cataraqui Source Protection Plan (the Plan)
can be found online at: http://www cleanwatercataraqul.ca/maps/ClckableX20Maps/Fact20Sheets/IP22-Brockulle-
“Municipalty.pd In reviewing these policies, staff have determined that there are no significant drinking water threats
‘connected withthe proposed development (Le. application of pesticides, storage/applcaton of agricultural source material
and use of land for livestock) requiring additonal risk management measures. As noted, the property is within a high¥y
‘vulnerable aquifer, however, the proposal doesnot include activities that would require additional risk management

In conclusion, staff have no objections with approval of zoning amendment aplication 014-027 based on our review of
‘natural hazards, natural heritage, and water quality and quantity protection policies. Please inform ths office of any
decisions made bythe Cty with regard to this application.

Please contact me should you have any questions.
Best regards,
Mike

Michael Dakin

CCataraqui Region Conservation Authority

1641 Perth Road, PO Bor 160, lenburnie ON, KOH 180
Phone: (613) 546-4228 ext. 228- Fa: (612) 547-6474
Toll Free for Area code (613): 187-956-2722

ist us onthe web: waew.re.cd
wr leanwaterctaraquca
wo ataraqultral.ca

Page 50 of 52

Be1]_~ 3ereny Godfrey
Fron: Godfrey,_2ereny jeremy goatreyObel|.ca>

Sent? January’, 2018 3:12 Pit

Tor dayna Gollédge

Subject: RE: Meso - Notice for Zoning amendment Application ~
Attachments: Meno’ 137 George street ~ File D14-027- put

je 014-027

HeTTo payna,

Bel} would Tike to coment that we have a Tive cable into the church that will need
£0 be disconnected

prior to any denolition. should this proceed please provide my contact information
othe developer to

fake ‘these arrangenents as weTl as to plan for servicing the new apartments.

Regards

dereay Godfrey
special gr.“ Network Provisioning
Pe Gis 345-3257 ms 613 340-4887

from: oayna Cote, na to:060 edgesbrockve.com}
Eine! Satradsy, Satary it, sons 19e%6 ;

Tor om CosbfoveseclsgrovedbrockvNlercom; Peter Raabe <praabetbrockyiTVe,com
SNMeAdePSckvstte.com; scott Fraser <sfrasershrockviTNepol ce, com; Greg Healy
Shealyebrocky! iecconsi, srant,caskeneste’sbeastenet eworberv‘iercae

Seba ata TNSEICS fot" Zoning Asendnent application ce ota BF

Good Afternoon,

Attached you will find the notice for Zoning Amendment Application 014-027 going to
ie Economie

Development Planning Committee on February 6, 2018.

Please reply with any coments regarding these applications by no later than

January 24, 2018.

IF you have any specific questions in relation to these applications, please
Contact ‘Andrew Mecinnis, :

Planner. Tr, at 613-342-8772, extension 4421;

‘or email to: amcginnis@brockvile.com

‘Thank you,

bayna Goledge
Adwinistrative Coordinator ~ Planning Department, city of srockvitle :
aii" one. bing Sereet west, P-0.box 8000, srockviTie, ON KOV.7AS

el. 613.342.8772, ext. 4463

Fax 613.498.2793

trail: pianningdbrockviTle.com .

2. please consider the environment before printing this enat? |
Bigclainer: The information in this wessage’ fs confidential and may be Tegaly |
privileged. re is" intended

Eolely Torche addressee: Access to this message by anyone else {= unauthorized. oF |
ou are not the

tended recipient, any disclosure, copying, or distribution of the message, or any
action or ont sston.
Saken ‘by. you in reliance on it, is prohibited and may be unlawful. Please
mediately contact the sender’ ¥
iF"you have Feceived this message in error.

Page 1

Page 51 of 52

2.
CENBRIDGE fer

January 22, 2018

Andrew McGinnis
Planner I

City of Brockvite

Planning Department

(One king Street West PO Box 5000
Brockville, ON KBV 7A5,

Dear Andrew McGinnis,

Re: Zoning By-law Amendment
4187 George Street & Trinity Church
City of Brockville
File No. D14-027

Enbridge Gas Distribution does not object othe proposed applications).

Enbridge Gas Distribution reserves the right to amend or remove development conditions,

Sincerely,

Ue Colenin!

Alice Coleman
hance Pane corte
Uno Ran BetutonPomng |

‘Become ora Owe
Ino alt mosoct.

cin

Page 52 of 52,

Director of Planning
ity Hall

‘king Strt West

P.O, Box 8000, Brockviie, ON
K6V 7A5

D.CM van Viet & 7. B. V. Wiegert

Brockville, 17 January 2018

‘Subject: Tho proposed change of R9-1 and MD-2 zone to R-Multiple Residential Special
Exception Zone

Doar Sir/Madam,

‘We have received an invitation to the Pubic Meeting regarding the change in zoning at 137
George Street, better known as the Trinity Church location,

‘We oppose the proposal to build two rental apartment buildings at this location for many
reasons, and hope the location can be used for other purposes which more reflect the needs of
{the city and the public. Please read our arguments below:

~ The current infrastructure around 187 George Street does not support an aditional 48 rental
Unis. Trafic wil key dramatically increase, which poses a danger to children frequenting
the Brockville Gymnastics Academy and the Rotary Park

~ Tho ‘faco’ of downtown Brockvile will Gterioato withthe addition of more non-pleturesque
apartment buildings. We feel we can comfortably state that many poople ving in this cty are
‘rustrated with the downtowm (renta) apartment buildings we have to date. The apartments,
‘along Water street come to mind, for example. Rental proparties should be moved uptown
‘0 that wo may preserve as much as possible the historic look of downtown Brockvlle

= We believe it tobe a matter of time before Leon's wil close its doors, Once they decide to
‘lose the location and if the building were to be taken down, we are worried that even more
apartment buildings wil arse, further deteriorating the southwest entry to downtown
Brocivile. Also, # condominiums were to be bult at the currnt Leon's location, rental
properties noxt door would arive the prices down.

~ The current location isa public location, and it should stay so, Our proposal is that we
should build a nice park. Callit the “inity Park’ for example. Or loave the area vacant for
bottor proposals that ft our beautiful for now) downtown core of this fantastic town,

\We hope to be able to attend the hearing on February 6th. If not, we hope that our remarks wal
be added to the discussion somehow.

fi Viet & Theresa van Vile Wiegert

Sincerely,


