Page 1 of 27

Economic Development and
Planning Committee

Tuesday, July 7, 2015, 5:30 pm

City Hall, Council Chambers

Committee Members Areas of Responsibility
Councillor J. Baker, Economic Development Economic Development
Chair Planning Advisory Team.
Councillor L. Bursey Chamber of Commerce Museum Board
Councillor M. Kalivas DBIA brary Board
Councillor D. LeSueur Heritage Brockville Arts Centre
Mayor D. Henderson, Tourism
Ex-Officio

Page COMMITTEE AGENDA

Disclosure of Interest

Delegations and Presentations
Nil.

Correspondence
Nil.

Staff Reports

2015-074-07
Proposed Amendments to Zoning By-Law 050-2014
Wall Street Village

Wall Street, James Street and Victoria Avenue
‘Owners: Wall Street Village Inc. and

Wall Street United Church

Agent: Richard Vanveldhuisen

File: D14-007(050-2014)

1, THAT Zoning By-law 050-2014 be amended to rezone lands
described as Lots 58 to60, and 68 to 74 inclusive, and Part
Lots 67 and 75, Block 31, Plan 67, being Parts 1 to 4, Plan
28R-13397, City of Brockville, County of Leeds, from R9-3
‘Multiple Residential Special Exception Zone, in part, T-R9-4
‘Multiple Residential Special Exception Zone, in part, and Ii —
General Institutional Zone to R9-Multiple Residential Special

Page 2 of 27

Economic Development and Planning Committee
duly 7, 2015

Exception Zone to allow the development of the subject lands
for a senior citizens’ apartment building, containing up to
eighty-five (85) units, with site specific development
standards including, but not limited to, amenity space, front
yard encroachment for balconies, bicycle parking
requirements, driveway separation distances, and landscaped
area; and

2. THAT Zoning By-law 050-2014 be amended to rezone a
portion of lands described as Lots 61 to 63, 65, 66, 76 to 79,
and Part Lots 67, 75 and 80, Block 31, Plan 67, City of
Brockville, County of Leeds, from R9-3 Multiple Residential
Special Exception Zone, in part, and Ii — General Institutional
Zone, in part, to li — General Institutional Special Exception
Zone for Wall Street United Church to recognize an expanded
lot area and establish reduced interior side yard setback of
1.5 metres.

3. THAT Council confirms that no further notice is required
respecting the proposed amendments to Zoning By-law 050-
2014.

New Business - Reports from Members of Council
Nil.

Brainstorming
Consent Agenda
Adjournment

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee adjourned its
‘meeting until the next regular meeting scheduled for August 4, 2015.

Page 3 of 27

29June2015
REPORT TO THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE —
07 JULY 2015

2018-07407
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO ZONING BY-LAW 050-2014 M. PASCOE MERKLEY
WALL STREET VILLAGE DIRECTOR OF PLANNING
WALL STREET, JAMES STREET AND VICTORIA AVENUE ‘A. MCGINNIS
OWNERS: WALL STREET VILLAGE INC. AND PLANNER I
WALL STREET UNITED CHURCH

AGENT: RICHARD VAN VELDHUISEN
FILE: 014-007,es02014)

RECOMMENDATIONS:

1. THAT Zoning By-law 050-2014 be amended to rezone lands described as Lots 58 to
60, and 68 to 74 inclusive, and Part Lots 67 and 75, Block 31, Plan 67, being Parts 1
to 4, Plan 28R-13397, Gity of Brockville, County of Leeds, from RS-3 Multiple
Residential Special Exception Zone, in part, T-R9-4 Multiple Residential Special
Exception Zone, in part, and It ~ General Institutional Zone to R9-Muttiple
Residential Special Exception Zone to allow the development of the subject lands for
a senior citizens’ apartment building, containing up to eighty-five (85) units, with site-
specific development standards including, but not limited to, amenity space, front
yard encroachment for balconies, bicycle parking requirements, driveway separation
distances, and landscaped area; and

2. THAT Zoning By-law 050-2014 be amended to rezone a portion of lands described
as Lots 61 to 63, 65, 66, 76 to 79, and Part Lots 67, 75 and 80, Block 31, Plan 67,
City of Brockville, County of Leeds, from R9-3 Multiple Residential Special Exception
Zone, in part, and |1 — General institutional Zone, in part, to 1 ~ General Institutional
‘Special Exception Zone for Wall Street United Church to recognize an expanded lot
area and establish reduced interior side yard setback of 1.5 metres.

3, THAT Council confirms that no further notice is required respecting the proposed
‘amendments to Zoning By-law 050-2014.

PURPOSE:

‘The purpose of this report Is to provide recommendations for amendments to City of
Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 respecting lands to be developed for Wall Street
Village, a senior citizens’ apartment building up to six (6) stories in height (20.5 metres),
containing up to eighty-five (85) units, and for establishing site specific development
standards. Additional zoning refinements are needed due to a proposed land exchange
with Wall Street United Church and rationalization of the boundaries of both sites, to
facilitate the Wall St. Village development as well as the parking needs for the Wall Street
United Church.

Page 4 of 27

2018.074-07 Page?
Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment

Wall Street Village

‘Owners: Wall Street Village Inc. and Wall St. United Church

‘Agent: Richard Van Veldhuisen

File 014-007 saa0r4)

BACKGROUND:

Mr. Richard Van Veldhuisen, acting on behalf of Wall Street Village Inc., owner of lands
described as Lots 58 to 60, and 68 to 69 inclusive, and Part Lot 67, Block 31, Pian 67,
being Parts 1 to 5, R Plan 28R-13397, City of Brockville, County of Leeds, (located on the
south side of James Street, between Wall Street to the west and Victoria Avenue to the
east) has submitted an Application for Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-
2014 with respect to the subject lands.

Wall Street Village is proposed as a six (6) storey, 85 unit seniors’ apartment building, 30
units of which will have rents supplemented by the United Counties of Leeds and Grenville
(UCLG). The Application filed on behalf of Wall Street Village Inc. seeks to modify the
existing zoning on the site to allow the development, and to create site-specific
development standards respecting on-site amenity space ‘and landscaped area, bicycle
parking, separation distances between driveways. on Victoria Ave., encroachment of
balconies and air conditioners into the front yard along James St., increased density,
parking location, and relief from the requirement to provide an equipped children’s play
area.

Over the course of the past number of months, since the Application for Amendment to
Zoning By-law 050-2014 was received, refinements to the proposed project and
‘subsequent changes to the specific zoning provisions requested has transpired, although
generally speaking, the nature of the development remains relatively consistent with the
Concept and plans submitted and discussed at the Public Meeting held on 12 March 2015,
although Wall Street Village Inc. and Wall Street United Church have recently settled on a
‘minor exchange of lands which will faciitate the Wall St. Village development as well as the
parking needs for the Wall Street United Church. Applications for Consent to Sever just
Teceived in the Planning Dept., once approved, would result in lot configurations which are
‘more representative of the needs of each organization. The desired reconfiguration of land
‘ownership in this block is cause for consideration of some adjustments to the zoning for
Wall Street United Church, which will be addressed further this report.

‘The following schedules are attached to this report:

Schedule “A"- sketch showing location of subject lands;

Schedule “B”- photos of subject lands;

Schedule “C”- concept of proposed development and lot layout;

Schedule “D"- plan showing the proposed land exchange between
Wal Street Village Inc. and Wall Street United Church;

‘Schedule “E”- excerpt from the Public Meeting minutes.

Page 5 of 27

2018.074.07 Pages
Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment

‘Wall Sveet Village

‘Ownors: Wall Street Village inc. and Wall St. United Church

‘Agent: Richard Van Veldhuisen

File 014-007 soze)

Zoning and Offcial Plan Information Wall Street Vilage Inc:

Official Plan Designation: Downtown and Central Waterfront Area with “Mixed Use.
Node” Provisions, “Transitional Area’ provisions and
within the "Skyline Development Area’.

Existing Zoning: 9-3 Multiple Residential Special Exception Zone, in
part, T-R9-4 Multiple Residential Special Exception Zone,
In part, and 11-General Institutional Zone, in part.

Proposed Zoning R9-Multiple Residential Special Exception Zone to allow
development of the subject lands for an apartment
building up to six (6) stories in height (20.5 metres),
containing up to eighty-five (85) units, and for
establishing site specific development standards.

Below are the proposed special exception development standards, as submitted by the
‘applicant.

R . E " E Reduction
‘Minimum required Amenity 55.2%
118 1380.0 m2 6180 m2
2 | Minimum required bicycle 2 6 72.7%
parking spaces
‘Minimum separation distance 26.7%
3 eee Sitomaye 15.0m 11.0m
Maximum allowabie o%
4 | encroachment fora balcony 1.5m 16m Increase
within a front yard
Minimum required 71%
5 | landscaped open space 28% 26%
6 | Increase to the Maximum 73a unit par Ha [245 units perHa| 4.5%
Density Permitted (81 Units) (85units) | Increase
7 | Request to permit parking within the required front yard on Victoria,
Avenue and Wall Street.
Request to permit air conditioners within the required front yard
‘9 | Request to remove the requirement to supply a children’s play area.


Page 6 of 27

2015-07407 Pages
Proposed Zonit

Wall Street Village

‘Owners: Wall Street Village Inc. and Wall St. United Church
‘Agent: Richard Van Veldhuisen

File 14-007 so2e)

Total Area: 0.34 hectares (3,472 m?)
Frontage (on Wall Street): 36.44m
Frontage (on James Street): 71.01 m
Frontage (on Vietoria Avenue): 63.04 m
‘Average Depth: Thm

‘A portion of the subject properties are currently occupied by 1.5 and 2 storey older
‘dwellings with a vacant area located at the comer of Victoria Avenue and James Street.

‘Surrounding Land Use.
‘The surrounding land uses are as follows:

North: The lands immediately to the northeast (north side of James Street) are
zoned R§-Multiple Residential Zone (northwest comer of James Street and
Victoria Avenue) and occupied by a small apartment building

‘The lands to the northwest (comer of James and Wall Street) are zoned R4-
General Residential Zone and occupied by a mix of older residential
dwellings.

‘The lands to the northeast (northeast comer of James Street and Victoria
‘Avenue) are occupied by Irvine Funeral Home and zoned R5-1 Multiple
Residential Special Exception Zone.

East: ‘The lands to the east (east side of Victoria Avenue) are zoned |1-General
Institutional Zone and are occupied by the parking lot for Brockville General
Hospital - Garden Street Site (south east corner of James Street and Victoria
‘Avenue) and St. Paul's Anglican Church located at the northeast comer of
Pine Street and Victoria Avenue.

South: The lands to the south are zoned |1-General Institutional Zone and C2-
General Commercial Zone, The lands are occupied by Wall Street United
Church and the Bank of Montreal, respectively.

West: The lands to the west (west side of Wall Street) are zoned I1-General
Institutional Zone. The lands are occupied by the Brockville Court House and
an office building owned by the United Counties of Leeds and Grenville.

Page 7 of 27

2018-07407 Pages
Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment

‘WallStreet Village

‘Ownors: Wall Street Vilage inc. and Wall St. United Church

‘Agent: Richard Van Veldhuisen

File 014-007 sozew)

Public Participation

‘The application for Zoning By-law Amendment has proceeded through the normal review
process. On 7 April 2015, a Public Meeting was held by the Economic Development and
Planning Committee. Notice of the Public Meeting was advertised in the Brockville
Recorder and Times Newspaper on 12 March 2015 and was circulated to property owners
with 120.0 metres of the subject property. In addition, signs were posted on the subject
property advertising that the lands are the subject of an Application for Amendment to City
(of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014. Comments from City Departments and affected
‘agencies were also solicited. An excerpt from the Minutes of the Public Meeting held on 7
‘April 2015 is attached as Schedule “E” to this report.

Comments Received:

‘The following is a summary of comments received following the circulation of the Notice of
Public Meeting:

4. Conal Cosgrove, Director of Operations, City of Brockville.
‘* No comments with respect to the request to amend the Zoning By-law to
develop the property as proposed.

2. Steve Allen, Supervisor of Engineering, City of Brockville
+ Not opposed to the application.

3. Greg Healy, Chief Fire Prevention Officer
+ The Brockville Fire Department has no concer at this time.

ANALYSISIOPTIONS

Provincial tons

‘The Provincial Policy Statement 2014 (PPS) issued under Section 3 of the Planning Act
provides policy direction on matters of Provincial interest related to land use planning and
development. Section 3 of the Planning Act further directs that Council decisions affecting
planning matters “shall be consistent with” the Provincial Policy Statement.

Part V of the PPS contains various policies. Those relevant to the subject application are
found in Section 1.0 Building Strong Healthy Communities. Within this Section are
statements on managing and directing land use to achieve efficient development and land
use pattems. More specifically, Subsection 1.1.1 speaks to healthy, liveable and safe

Page 8 of 27

2015-07407 Pages
Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment

Wall Street Village

Owners: Wall Stret Village inc. and Wall St. United Church

‘Agent: Richard Van Veldhuisen

File D14-007 oes)

communities which are to be sustained by promoting efficient development, by
‘accommodating a mix of land uses to meet long-term needs, promoting cost-effective
development standards to minimize land consumption and servicing costs, and improving
accessibility for persons with disabilties and the elderly, among other things.

Intensification and redevelopment are to be encouraged (Subsection 1.1.2). Furthermore,
there Is to be an appropriate range of housing types and densities, and planning authorities,
are to permit and facilitate all forms of housing required to meet the social, health and well-
being requirements of current and future residents, including special needs such as
housing for the elderly (Subsection 1.4.3). Finally, Subsection 1.7 states that long-term
‘economic prosperity should be supported by maintaining and, where possible, enhancing
the vitality and viabilty of downtowns and mainstreets, among other things.

‘This project would see an underutilized site situated on the north limit of the downtown core
area of the City redeveloped with a low income seniors’ residential apartment building at a
density which uses existing infrastructure efficiently while providing accessible housing for
the elderly. The development would thus be consistent with the above-stated goals,
objectives and policies of the PPS 2014.

Official Plan Considerations,

‘The Official Plan provides guidance on how to manage future growth, development, and
change within the City of Brockvile.

‘The goal of the Official Plan is to create a sustainable City in terms of health and vitality,
that is economically viable and diverse, has high quality municipal services and amenities,
and is well planned.

‘The subject property is designated under Schedule 1 - City Structure, of the Official Plan,
as “Downtown and Central Waterfront Area within the Mixed Use Node”. In addition, the
subject property is subject to the following constraints and considerations:

‘© Schedule 2 ~ Design Strategy - Downtown and Central Waterfront Area, of the
Offical Pian, identifies the subject land as being subject to Policy 4.2.3. Speoifically,
the property Is subject to policies pertaining to the “Transitional Area’, “intermittent
Street Frontage’, “Skyline Development’ and “institutional Area" Policies. Policy
4.23 Is discussed further elsewhere in this report.

Section 2.3 outlines stratagic planning themes which include “A Sustainable, Healthy, and
Vital City’, “An Economically Strong and Diverse City’, “A High Quality of City Services and
Amenities", and "A Well-Planned Responsive City’. Specifically, “A Sustainable, Healthy,

Page 9 of 27

2015-07407 Page
Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment

Wall Stet Village

‘Owners: Wall Street Vilage Inc. and Wall St. United Church

‘Agent: Richard Van Veldhuisen

File 014-007 se2014)

and Vital City” outlines, among others, that the City is to “ensure that all citizens have,
equitable, accessible, affordable, energy efficient housing choices, which are supportive of
a variety of lfestyles at various stages of fe.”

Through approved objectives, the City is also to “revitalize the Downtown and Central
Waterfront Area as mixed commercial, residential, cultural, social, tourism and
entertainment destinations, while recognizing and conserving Its cultural heritage
resources” and “provide for a variety of housing foms, tenures and levels of affordability
through development, redevelopment, intensification and infling projects.

Section 3 addresses building a healthy and sustainable City. Through Policy 3.2.2 which
describes the City Structure, it Is noted that the City should direct opportunities for
Intensification and infill to Mixed Use Nodes and Corridors.

Section 3.26.1 states among others, that it shall be the policy of the City that “as a first
priority, the City shall promote and direct growth through infil, intensification and
redevelopment of vacant and/or underutilized land to the Downtown and Central Waterfront
Area.”

Section 3.42 outlines the advantages of creating “community improvement plans" to
encourage upgrading and redevelopment opportunities in the older parts of the
municipality. The programs contained in the Citys Community Improvement Pian for
Downtown Brockville, are, in fact, intended to spur development opportunities such as this.

‘Section 3.5.1.2 provides information relating to affordable housing. This section states
among others, that it shall be the policy of the City that housing be affordable and
accessible to low and moderate income households, increase residential densities in
appropriate locations, and provide for redevelopment and residential intensification, where
practical. This includes the redevelopment of existing single-use and underutilized areas
‘with full municipal services, especially where the land is in close proximity to human
services.

‘The City shall also develop zoning provisions that are sufficiently flexible to permit a broad
and varied range of housing forms, types, sizes and tenures, and are encouraged to
provide opportunities for more affordable housing to be provided in the Downtown and
Central Waterfront Area.

The proposed residential development of an 85 unit apartment building; 30 units of which
will have their rents supplemented by the United Counties of Leeds and Grenville
contributes to affordable housing that the Official Plan seeks to encourage. In addition, all
necessary services are readily available, including public transit (red, green and blue bus

Page 10 of 27

2015-07407 Pag
Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment

Wall Stret Village

‘Owners: Wall Street Vilage Inc. and Wall St. United Chureh

‘Agent: Richard Van Veldhuisen

Fille D14-007 ose)

routes intersecting at the north-west comer of James Street and Wall Street) and nearby
parkland and open spaces are available to serve the residents.

Infiling of vacant areas is a priority through residential intensification per Policy 3.2.6.1.
Council is also to provide for increased densities in all land use categories within the
Downtown and Central Waterfront Area, particularly along transportation corridors and in
nodes to support public transit

Section 4.2 of the Official Plan contains various policies applicable to the “Downtown and
Central Waterfront Area’. Section 4,2.2, Permitted Uses, states among others that:

‘Subject fo the Land Use and Built Form policies of Section 4.2.3, the following
uses shall assist in guiding the broad range of development permitted within the
Downtown and Central Waterfront Area’, as identified on Schedule 1, recognizing
that a more definitive ist shall be provided in the Zoning By-law.

2. Medium and High density residential uses shall be permitted including triplex
dwellings, fourplex dwellings, row or block townhouse dwellings, converted
dwellings containing more than two dwelling units, small-scale apartments,
low-rise and high-rise apartment buildings; apartment hotels; multiple-
attached dwellings and other similar medium and high profile residential
buildings.

Section 4.2.3, subsection 11, states that for lands “Within transitional areas of the
Downtown and Central Waterfront Area identified on Schedule 2, the height, density and
‘massing of the development shall be compatible with the adjacent low density residential
uses through the use of appropriate transitions including but not limited to lower building
heights, additional setbacks and buffers, building treatments, location of parking, and
landscaping’.

Section 4.2.3, subsection 18, stat
proposed in excess of three storeys.

‘among others that “the criteria for any building
Il include the following:

1. Signature Architecture — Signature architecture above three storeys shall be
required to ensure a high level of architectural treatment and design. Signature
‘architecture may consist of enhanced building articulation through the use of
distinguishable architectural elements, including comices and mouldings,
‘materials, and colours consistent with’ the prominent architecture within the
Downtown and Central Waterfront Area.

4. Tall Building Guidelines - Development proposed in the Skyline Development
Areas or over five storeys in the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area, shall be
consistent with the City’s approved Downtown and Waterfront Master Plan and

Page 11 of 27

2018-07407 page
Proposed Zoning Bylaw Amendment

Wall Sveet Vilage

‘Owmors: Wall Steet Vilage inc. and Wal St United Church

gent Richara Van Veldnuison

File 014-07 eros

Urban Design Strategy, which outlines additional design guidelines for tall
buildings, which relate to massing, views and vistas, point block development
‘standards that mitigate shadow overlays, view obstructions and additional step
‘back requirements for towers above three storeys, building placement, and
architecture.

With respect to the subject site, itis located on an arterial road, being Wall St. To ensure
that traffic was adequately addressed, the City’s Operations Director, Mr. Conal Cosgrove,
was contacted and has advised that a traffic study is not required for the proposed
development. In addition, public open spaces are available near to this site, the closest
being Court House Green. The site's downtown location puts it near the extensive system
of waterfront parks, open spaces and the Brock Trail

With reference to the intended separation of high density development from lower profile
‘existing or proposed residential uses, the site is surrounded on three sides by municipal
roadways with lower density residential uses to the north separated by James St. The
preliminary concepts for the development indicate the intent for the building to be located at
the minimum required front yard setback of 3.0 metres with minimal encroachments of
balconies and air conditioning units. The architect Ralph Vandenberg of Vandenberg-
Wildeboer Architects has confirmed that the development meets the 45 degree angular
plane specification and other design guidelines of the Official Plan.

Landscaped area totalling 972.2 square metres is available for use by the residents located
at the rear of the building next to the proposed commonsfellowship room.

In general, there does not appear to be any conflicts with the Official Pian policies with
respect to a project of this nature in this location. In fact, it would advance many of the
City’s goals and objectives as described herein.

By-law Con:

ons:

The subject property is curently zoned as R9-3 Multiple Residential Special Exception
Zone, in part, T-R9-4 Multiple Residential Special Exception Zone (Temporary), in part, and
|-General Institutional, in part. Accordingly, an application has been made for an
amendment to Zoning ‘By-law 050-2014 to rezone the subject lands to R9 ~ Multiple
Residential Special Exception Zone. An apartment dweling is a permitted use in the R9 —
‘Multiple Residential Zone.

Given that the development as proposed would not meet the entire pre-existing zone
provisions established for lands which are zoned R9-3 and T-R9-4, there would be site
Specific elements required to address all non-standard items. Accordingly, it would be


Page 12 of 27

Page 10

‘Agent: Richard Van Veldhulsen
File 014-007 son

necessary for Council to concur with the overall rezoning as well as the non-standard
elements. would be Implemented on a site-specific basis through the creation of a
new site-specific zone,

‘The following is a discussion of those elements to be addressed as “special exception”
elements for Wall Street Village Inc.

i) Amenity Space

‘The applicant has requested a reduction to the amenity space requirement
from the required 1,380.0m? to 618.0m?. The proposed reduction represents
‘a decrease of 55.2%. The Planning Department spoke with the applicants
regarding the proposed reduction and have come to an agreement regarding
the proposed reduction. There is adequate space to increase amenity area;
however, it would see the loss of on-site parking which is required to meet the
needs of the tenants and visitors to the site. Based on the proposed uso,
surrounding uses requiring parking and addressing minimizing street parking
by residents, maximizing on-site parking at the cost of reduced amenity area
‘was considered equitable.

ji) Bicycle Parking

‘A reduction to the minimum required on-site bicycle parking spaces required
from 22 to 6 has been requested. The proposed reduction represents a
decrease of 72.7%. The Planning Department spoke with the applicants
regarding the proposed reduction and the applicant has stated that they do
not believe that their tenants will be avid cyclists; however, to off-set the lack
Of bicycle parking, the proposal is to have an internal storage room for
‘scooters and bicycles should tenants wish to use the space.

Department Staff believe that contrary to the applicant's rationale, occupants
of this building and their visitors should be encouraged to utilize bicycles
‘among other modes of active transportation. With a lack of parking available
{or this mode of transportation, it may deter the use of bicycles. An increase
In the bicycle parking should be required. Staff suggests a minimum of 12
spaces be made available by the use of bicycle racks or another option
should be made available.

Page 13 of 27

Page 11

lage

‘Ownors: Wall Street Vilage inc. and Wall St. United Church
‘Agent: Richard Van Veldhuuisen

Fle D14-007 roar)

ii) Driveway Separation Distance

Zoning By-law 050-2014 requires that for a lot having more than one
access/egress point the minimum separation distance between each shall be
‘a minimum of 15.0 metres. Due to the proposed layout of the site and the
orientation of building fronting on James Street, the applicant has requested a
reduction from the minimum required 15.0 metre separation to 11.0 metres to
‘accommodate the proposed parking layout.

Conal Cosgrove, Director of Operations has been contacted and has no
concer with the proposal. However, snow clearing/snow storage may
become an issue and will be addressed in the Site Plan Control Agreement.

v) Encroachment in a Front Yard

‘Awnings and Balconies not exceeding 4.0 metres in height are permitted to
‘encroach into a required front or exterior side yard a maximum of 1.5 metres.
Due to the height of the building and the proposed setback from James
‘Street, the applicant has requested permission to locate balconies which will
exceed the maximum 4.0 metre height within the front yard at an
‘encroachment distance of 1.6 metres.

Staff has reviewed the request and find the proposed encroachment minor 3s
the main building is satisfying the required front yard setback of 3.0 metres as
well as angular plane. The proposed encroachment will have minimal impact
‘on adjacent properties as the properties directly impacted by this request are
located across James Street which has a 20.1 metre road allowance, plus the
proposed front yard setback of 3.0 metros.

v) Reduction in Landscaped Open Space

Special Exception Zoning (RO-3 and T-R9-4) curenty in place onthe subject
land requires that a minimum of 28% (972.1 mt) of the lot be maintained a8
Landscaped Open Space. A request has been made by the applicant to
reduce the minimum landscaped open space required from 28% (972.1 m*) to
26% (902.72 m*) in order to accommodate the required parking and
adalonal vitor parking ont,

Staff have examined multiple options to provide for additional open space;
however, due to the proposed layout of the site, parking required and the
‘proximity to Downtown and other open space options (parks, etc), staff is of

Page 14 of 27

2015-07407 Page 12
Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment

Wall Steet Village

‘Owners: Wall Street Village inc. and Wall St United Church

‘Agent: Richard Van Veldhuisen

Fle D14-007 eso 2e)

the opinion that the proposed reduction is acceptable but would like the
‘applicant to look for additional options for open space during the site plan
review process.

vi) Maximum Density Permitted

‘The current R9-3 Multiple Residential Special Exception Zone limits the
proposed development to a maximum density of 234 units per hectare. This
equates to a maximum unit count of 81 units on the proposed site after the
proposed land transfer occurs. Prior to the land exchange, the initial land
holdings of Wall Street Village Inc, yielded a maximum unit count of 85. By
transferring a portion of land to Wall Street United Church the impact has
caused the land area to decrease which in tum affects the density permitted
based on the current zoning provision of 234 units per hectare.

Staff has reviewed the request and have no concem with the proposed
increase in the maximum density permitted as the design that was initially
presented at the Public Meeting is not changing. The R9-3 Special Exception
Zoning that is currently on the property was put in place in 2010 under Zoning
By-law 194.94. When examining the current Zoning By-law 050-2014, no
maximum density has been established against the R9 - Muttiple Residential
Zones. The increase in density Is due to the loss of land through the
‘Proposed land exchange with Wall Street United Church.

vii) Location of Parking Area

Zoning By-law 050-2014 establishes setbacks to parking areas within
‘Commercial Zones. Based on Section 3.33, Sub-section 3. b., the required
‘Sotback to the parking area from the street line shall be 6.0 metres or the
required building setback, whichever is lesser. In this case the setback for
the bulding is 3.0 metres. The applicant has requested to locate a parking
area at a setback of 0.0 metres to a street line.

Staff has reviewed the request and have no concern with the proposed
setback of 0.0 m. There are many properties within the downtown core which
have parking areas with no setback from the street line. In addition, there is a
5.5 m boulevard between the proposed parking area and the curb face of
Victoria Avenue.

Page 15 of 27

2018-074.07 Page 13
Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment

Wall Street Village

‘Owners: Wall Street Vilage inc. and Wall St. United Church

Fle D14-007 se se)

Air Conditioner Location

‘Air conditioner units are not permitted to be located within any front yard. In
this instance the applicant has asked for permission for the tenant to locate
air conditioner units on their balconies.

‘Staff has no concem with the proposed request as the air conditioning units
will be located on the balconies and not protruding from the edge of the
building. The applicant has also stated that altemative air conditioning supply
may be examined at the time of construction.

x) Children’s Play Area

The application requests elimination of the requirement to supply a children's
play area on the grounds of the apartment. The applicant has provided
rationale stating that “a common exterior patio is provided on the south side
as an extension of the large interior Common Room. These types of spaces
{are more useable and more applicable for this exclusively seniors’ residence.
There is ite need for a children’s play area.”

Having looked at the proposal and due the proximity to Downtown and other
open space options (parks, etc), staff is of the opinion that the proposed
children’s play area could be waived and relief from the requirement be
granted.

Besides the site-specific elements being considered for the zoning for the Wall Street
Vilage project, of relevance to the zoning to be created for the development site is the
decision, following the public meeting, reached betwoen Wall Street Village Inc. and Wall
Street United Church to adjust shared lot boundaries as illustrated on Schedule “D". If
approved, two outcomes are achieved as a result of proposed lot adjustments: Firstly, the
boundaries of the development parcel are rationalized such that parking spaces needed for
the Wall Street Vilage project would be entrely located on the site; and secondly, the new
Jot configuration would allow Wall Street United Church to gain approximately sixteen (16)
parking spaces to the east of the church. However, there are also issues of zoning
conformity which result from the proposed land transfer, specfcally, building setbacks from
the church to the proposed property lines are reduced in some locations, and zone
boundaries which normally align to property lines would need to be adjusted for both the
Wall Street Vilage development parcel and Wall Street United Church.

Given that the development concept is generally consistent with that which has been
available for public review and comment, itis staff's view that the necessary adjustments to

Page 16 of 27

2015-07407 Page 14
Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment

Wal Stret Village

‘Owners: Wall Street Vilage Inc. and Wall St. United Church

‘Agent: Richard Van Veldhuisen

File D14-007 sae)

zoning for Wall Street United Church could be handled through the process of review and
recommendations associated with the current Application for Amendment to Zoning By-law
050-2014 filed for the Wall Street Village project without the necessity of a zoning
amendment application being filed by Wall Street United Church, and additional public
consultation being conducted. The recommendations in this report, to create zoning to
reflect the site-specific circumstances for the Wall Street Village development project as
well as for the adjusted property for Wall Street United Church, are prepared with the
‘presumption that Council would support this approach. In doing so, itis also recommended
that Council consider Section 34(17) of the Planning Act and deciare that no further notice
is required, despite the changes that have been proposed by Wall Street Village Inc. and
Wall Street United Church after the holding of the public meeting,

‘The following is a discussion of those elements to be addressed as special exception
‘elements for Wall Street United Church:

) Interior Side Yard Setback

‘The preliminary design concept indicated some parking spaces which would
be spilt by existing property lines, necessitating the creation of easements.
and convoluted zoning to recognize the circumstances. Since the Public
Meeting, both sides have come to an agreement to exchange lands in order
to simplify the situation and create more uniform lot lines.

The revised concept submitted reflects this proposed Improvement to the
land ownership situation. However, by exchanging some lands,
reconfiguration of the lots also creates a setback issue with the United
Church, as Zoning By-law 050-2014 requires a minimum of 4.5 metres from
the building to an interior lot line. For this land transfer to proceed in
‘compliance with all applicable zoning, it is necessary to provide for a reduced
setback of 1.5 metres.

‘Staff has no concem with the proposed setback to be established in a new I1-
General Institutional Special Exception Zone to address issues for the Wall
‘Street United Church lands as adjusted once transfers of land with Wall
‘Street Village Inc. are completed.

Based on review of the above comments received, the redesign of the parking area and the
proposed land transfers, staff recommend that the request for rezoning on both Wall Street
Village Inc and Wall Street United Church properties be approved in order to permit the
proposed 85 unit apartment building to be developed.


2015.074.07
Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment

Wall Stret Village

‘Owners: Wall treet Village Inc. and Wal St. United Church
‘Agent: Richard Van Veldhuisen

File 014-007 oso.ana

Page 17 of 27
Page 15

The subject properties are located in a prominent location within the City and will provide
another source for affordable housing options. The proposal is utilizing existing services

and is directly adjacent to City public transit stops.

‘Should the recommendations above be accepted by Council, the proposed zones would
read similar to the following and would incorporate some of the R9-3 zoning regulations

already in force on the property:

“R9-7 (Wall Street Village Inc. ~ Wall Street, James Street and Victoria Avenue)

‘The uses permitted in the R9-7 Zone shall be an apartment dwelling containing a
‘maximum of eighty-five (85) dwelling units. The zone provisions for the R9-7 Zone
shall be the same as for the R9 Zone save and except for the following

Minimum Front Yard — Wall Street (measured to the 30m
building face)

‘Minimum Front Yard - James Street (measured tothe | 30m

building face)

Minimum Front Yard - Victoria Avenue (measured to the | 30m

building face)

‘Minimum Interior Side Vard (measured to the building | 0.9m

face)

‘Maximum Density 245 units per hectare
Landscaped Open Space 26%

‘Maximum Building Height 21.5 m

‘Minimum Parking Requirement 0.5 spaces per unit
‘Minimum required Amenity Space 618.0 m2

‘Minimum required bicycle parking spaces 12

‘Minimum separation distance between driveways 110m

‘Maximum allowable encroachment for a balcony within a 1.6 m

front yard

Notwithstanding Section 3.4 of this By-law, a Children's Play Area is not required.

Notwithstanding Section 3.33, Sub-section iv) 5., access through the R9-7 Zone
from Wall Street and/or from Victoria Avenue for vehicular access purposes shall be
Permitted to any adjacent land which is non-residentially zoned.

Notwithstanding Section 3.33 of this By-law, parking may be permitted in the front
yards adjacent to Wall Street and Victoria Avenue at a setback of 0.0 metres from

the street lines.

Page 18 of 27

2015-074.07 Page 16
Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment

Wall Stret Village

‘Owners: Wall Street Village Inc. and Wall St. United Church

‘Agent: Richard Van Veldhuisen

File 014-007 e200)

Notwithstanding Section 3.1 j) of this By-law, air conditioning units may be
permitted within the front yard and within the confines of the balconies.”

“11-7 (Wall Street United Church)

‘The uses permitted in the I1-7 Zone shall be shall be the same as for the I1 Zone
‘save and except for the following:

(Minimum interior Side Yard (north) [ism }

he Public (Minutes Attached
‘Brought Forward

(On 7 April 2015, @ Public Meeting was held by the Economic Development Planning
Development Committee. The following text addresses issues raised which are not
otherwise addressed previously in this report:

Traffic / Three-way Stop (Wall Street/James Street):

Concer was brought forward concer relating to the speed of vehicles on Wall Street. The
‘question of whether a three-way stop at the comer of Wall Street and James Street could
be implemented was posted.

To ensure that traffic was adequately addressed, the City’s Operations Director, Mr. Conal
Cosgrove, was contacted and has advised that a traffic study is not required for the
proposed development and the requested stop signs at Wall Street and James Street are
‘not warranted based on traffic counts in the area.

‘No additional comments were received at the Public Meeting,
Site Plan Considerations:

All lands within the limits ofthe City for Brockville are subject to Site Plan Control Approval
fs established by City of Brockville By-law 33-86, as amended. Accordingly, prior to
development, the Wall Street Village project is subject to site plan approval. This process
fensures appropriate design, servicing and compliance with zoning provisions. It also
provides the City with the opportunity to impose conditions of approval, financial and
‘otherwise, including cash-in-ieu of parkland dedication, iit so chooses,


Page 19 of 27

Page 17

(Owners: Wall Stret Village inc. and Wall St. United Church
‘Agent: Richard Van Veldhuisen
File 014-007 oe)

POLICY IMPLICATIONS:

‘As stated in the Analysis section of this report, the proposed zoning amendments are
‘consistent with the PPS and with Official Plan.

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS:

‘All costs associated with the development and lot adjustments conceming of the subject
properties are the responsibilty of the Owners.

‘Wall Street Village Inc. has provided a Notice of Intent to take advantage of applicable CIP
programs, including TIERR (Downtown) and TIEG (Brownfields).

CONCLUSION:

Following review of the PPS, the Official Plan, Zoning By-law 050-2014, as well as
submissions received respecting the request for Zoning By-law amendment for Wall Street
Village inc. and Wall Street United Church, it is reasonable to rezone the subject
properties.

The proposed amendments to Zoning By-law 050-2014 will intensify, utlize existing
services/infrastructure and add to the mix of housing types available within the Downtown
and Central Waterfront Area.

Concepts for development remain generally consistent with those reviewed through public
‘consultation, and itis recommended that no further public consultation or notice be given.

‘The recommendations at the beginning of this report reflect this conclusion,

Lhe

M. Pascoe Merkley, MCIP, RI
Director of Planning

‘Andrew McGinnis, MCI
Planner it

0B. Casselman

City Manager

Page 20 of 27,

SCHEDULE “A” TO REPORT 2014-074-07


SCHEDULE “B” TO REPORT 2014-074-07

—
a

> ——a

3

Page 21 of 27

Page 22 of 27


SCHEDULE “C” TO REPORT 2014-074-07


Page 25 of 27

SCHEDULE “D” TO REPORT 2014-074-07

‘The Board of Truttees of |
Wall Steet United church |] F™

wrest | wre
COMPILED ‘PLAN 67 cade


SCHEDULE “E” TO REPORT 2014-074.07. “°°”

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuosday, April 07, 2015

property advising thatthe iands are the subject of an Application for
of Brockvile Zoning By aw 050-2014

2. 2015-032-04
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-Law 050-2014
Wall Street Village, Wall Street, James Street and Victoria Avenue
(Owner: Wall Street Village Inc.
‘Agent: Dick VanVeldhuisen

Moved by: Councillor Bursey

‘THAT Report 2015-032-04 be received as information and that a report on this matter
‘be prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic Development and Planning
Committee or Council at a future meeting.

CARRIED

Mr. A. McGinnis, Planner Il, announced that the Notice of Public Meeting respecting the
‘application for Zoning By-law Amendment was advertised in the Brockville Recorder
‘and Times Newspaper on March 12, 2016 and was circulated to property owners within
120.0 metres (400.0 ft.) of the subject property. In addition, a sign was posted on the
‘subject property advising that the lands are the subject of an Application for Amendment
to the City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014,

Page 2013

Page 27 of 27

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, April 07, 2015

Councilor Baker, Chair, asked that any person wanting further notice of the passage of
the proposed amendment should give their ful name, address and postal code to the
‘Secratary prior to leaving the meeting,

Councilor Baker reviewed the procedures for the Public Meeting.

Mr. A. McGinnis provided a brief explanation and purpose of the Public Meeting,

‘Mr. Ralph Vandenburg the architect for the project offered a brief overview of the
project.

(Mr. John Erwin spoke in favour of the project. Mr. Erwin did offer his concems over
‘speed on Wall Street and hoped that with the proposed new project there could be a
‘new three way stop at James and Wall Streets.

Mr. McGinnis advised the Committee that he will forward his concerns to the Operations
department.

'No persons spoke in opposition of the proposed amendment.

‘The meeting adjourned at 6:26 pm.

The Request for Information Sheets are on file in the Clerk's Ofice.

Page 3013

