ral Public Meeting
BROCKVILLE Economic Development &

‘Ei OF THE 1000 ISLANDS Plani

Tuesday, June 07, 2016,
COMMITTEE MINUTES City Hall, Council Chambers:

Committee Members:
Councillor P. Dery, Chair

Councillor L. Bursey

Councillor M. Kalivas

Councillor D. LeSueur

Councillor Mayor D. Henderson, Ex-Officio

Staff:
Mr. J. Faurschou, Planner I

Mr. A. McGinnis, Planner IT

Ms. L. Murray, Deputy City Clerk (Recording Secretary)
Ms. M. Pascoe Merkley, Director of Planning

Mr. D. Paul, Director of Economic Development

‘The Chair called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
ITEM

1. 2016-074-06
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014
Part Lot 14, Plan 80, Being Part 3 on Reference
Plan 28R-6942 South Side of Bayview Road
Owners: Michael Menard, Vivian Levermore,
Greg Moir, Jackie Moir
Applicant: Michael Menard

Moved by: Councillor Kalivas
THAT Report 2016-074-06 be received as information and that a report on
this matter be prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic

Development and Planning Committee at a future meeting.

CARRIED

Page 1 of 3

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, June 07, 2016

Page 2 0f 3

Councillor Dery, Chair, introduced the public meeting and read from the
prepared required comments.

Ms. Pascoe Merkley announced that notice of the Public Meeting was
advertised in the Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper on May 12, 2016
and was circulated to property owners within 120.0 metres (400.0 feet) of
the subject property. In addition, a sign was posted on the subject property
advising that the lands are the subject of an Application for Amendment to
the City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014.

Councillor Dery, asked that any person wanting further notice of the
passage of the proposed amendment should give their full name, address
and postal code to the Secretary prior to leaving the meeting,

Councillor Deery reviewed the procedures for the Public Meeting.

Ms. Pascoe Merkley provided an overview of the proposed zoning
amendment.

Councillor Deery asked if there was anyone present who wished to speak in
favour of the amendment,

Ms. Vivian Levermore, owner, offered a brief history of the property, stating
that they had purchased the property in May 2006. She explained that at
that time there was a boat hoist and catwalk in place she believes from
sometime in the late 1950's or early 1960's.

Ms. Levermore respectfully requested the approval of the amendment and
assured everyone present that it will not be a major difference in the use of
the roadway or subject land.

Councillor Deery asked if there was anyone else present who wished to
speak in favour of the amendment, seeing none, Councillor Deery asked if
there was anyone present who wished to speak in opposition of the
amendment.

Mr. Clinton Culic introduced himself and stated that he Is legal counsel for
the owner of 5 Bayview, Mrs. Kahn. Mr. Culic identified that the City can only
control what happens on land and the Cataraqui Regional Conservation
‘Authority (CRCA) is responsible for the happenings on the bed of the St.
Lawrence River. He stressed that, in his opinion, this governing body (EDP
Committee) cannot control what is done to the boat hoist as it is not on

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, June 07, 2016

Page 3 of 3

shore. Mr. Culic felt the zoning should be changed to “open space zoning”
and does not require a special exception zone to permit the “private marine
facility”.

Mr. Kalle Pugi, 6 Bayview Road, stated that he is against the zoning change.
He explained that he has a 6 foot right of way across the subject lands to
the river. Mr. Pugi is unhappy with the fact there are no plans illustrating the
future intended use of the property. He feels it Inappropriate to designate it
open space. Mr. Pugi emphasized that if a boat is attached to the dock it will
block his access to the river. In addition, he feels that his view to the river
would not be respected. Mr. Pugi summarized his prior dealings with the
current owners of the lot in question and the reasons for his position.

Mr. Ken Forrest spoke on behalf of his mother Ruth Forrest who lives at 4
Bayview Road. Mr. Forrest stated that he is a real estate broker and is
currently trying to sell his mother’s home. Mr. Forrest indicated that the
confusion over this property, the potential severance and zoning change is
holding up the sale of his mother’s home. Mr. Forrest identified himself as
being the representative of all the residents on Bayview Road. Mr. Forrest
summarized his investigation into the history of the land in questioned,
history of the walkway and the boat lift, permits and the like. Mr. Forrest
summarized his reasons for his concerns and position.

Mr. Forrest stated that it is the wish of the Bayview Road property owners to
have the subject lands owned by someone who lives on the street. Mayor
Henderson replied that it would not be within the City’s control to make this
a stipulation.

Mayor Henderson asked Ms. Pascoe Merkley what the current property
owner is permitted to do on these lands. Ms. Pascoe Merkley replied that in
its current state it is too small to build on as it does not meet current zone
provisions. The Applicants have no use to attach to this property. Although
the zoning by-law states that if it abuts water a private marine facility may
be permitted.

Councillor Deery asked if there was anyone else who wished to speak on this
matter. As no one came forward he indicated that this matter will be
considered by the Economic Development and Planning Committee at a
future meeting, which will then make a recommendation to Council.

The meeting adjourned at 7:15 pm.

The Request for Information Sheets are on file in the Clerk’s Office.

