a Economic Development &

BROCKVILLE Planning Committee
‘GIYOFTHE TOO0ISCANDS Tuesday, September 03, 2013, 5:30 p.m.
COMMITTEE MINUTES ity Hall, Council Chambers,

Members Prese
Councillor M. Kalivas, Chair
Councillor J. Baker (late 5:34 pm)
Councillor T. Blanchard

Councillor M. McFall (late 5:33 pm)
Mayor D. Henderson, Ex-Officio

Staff:
Mr. J. Faurschou, Planner |

Ms. L. Murray, Deputy City Clerk (Recording Secretary)
Ms. M. Pascoe-Merkley, Director of Planning

Mr. D. Paul, Director of Economic Development

Others:
Ms. T. Renkema, JRim
Mr. R. Zajac, Recorder and Times Newspaper

‘The Chair called the meeting to order at 5:30 pum.
DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST

Ni

DELEGATION(S) AND PRESENTATION(S)

Ni

(CORRESPONDENCE

Nil

Page t of 4

Economic Development and Planning (EDP) Committee Minutes -
Tuesday, September 03, 2013

‘STAFF REPORTS

1

2013-100-09
Facade Improvement Grant Program and
Residential or Commercial Conversion/Rehabilitation
Grant Program Uptake

Moved by: Councillor Baker

THAT Council receive Report 2013-100-09 Facade Improvement Grant Program and
Residential or Commercial Conversion/Rehabiltation Grant Program Uptake for
information purposes.

CARRIED

Mr. Faurschou provided and overview of this report. He explained that during the
application period, February 1, 2013 to May 31, 2013, they received 6 applications of
which 5 qualified

‘The Mayor was surprised to see an application for 9 - 11 Broad Street (The
Boardwalk) had met the conditions considering it isnt a heritage type building. Mr.
Faurschou clarified that this grant program is a community improvement program, if
the building is deemed heritage it would be awarded more points during the
application process.

‘The committee would lke to see the qualifications tightened up a litte because they
don't fee! this is the intent ofthis program.

Councilor Baker was not in support of the "Residential or Commercial
Conversion/Rehabilitation Grant Program. He doesn't think the City should be using
tax payer's money to improve interiors of apartments. He would also lke to see the
tightening of this programs guideline.

‘The Committee would lke to see this topic brought back to Committee in November
so that they may review and tighten up the criteria,

Page 2014

Economic Development and Planning (EDP) Committee Minutes -
Tuesday, September 03, 2013

2. 2013-097-09
Revised Policy
City Property Transactions

Moved by: Councillor Blanchard

‘THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee recommend to Council
the endorsement on the revised policy of the process associated with City property
transactions inclusive of the revised Purchase of Sale Agreement.

DEFFERED
To EDP October

Mr. D. Paul provided a brief summary of this report. Mr. Paul explained that itis
mostly the process that has changed and they have added a new condition (#9) within
the agreement which provides the City a litle more protection. In addition Mr. Paul
said that the City solicitor has reviewed both the process and the agreement.

Councillor McFall is not comfortable with the wording of condition nine; she feels there
needs to be more wording to protect the City against being sued for breach of
contract.

Councilor Kalivas would lke to see the wording included, that if unsuccessful in a
Zoning by-law amendment, they can't take the City to the OMB.

Ms. Pascoe Merkley explained that you can't take away the right for someone to go to
the OMB as itis stipulated in the Planning Act

‘The Committee is not ready to move this forward and would lke the wording of
condition number nine reworked, and brought back to the next EDP meeting,

NEW BUSINESS - REPORT FROM MEMBERS OF COUNCIL

Nil
CONSENT AGENDA

Nil

Page 3.014

Economic Development and Planning (EDP) Committee Minutes -
Tuesday, September 03, 2013

ADJOURNMENT
Moved by: Councillor McFall

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee adjourned its meeting until
the next regular meeting scheduled for October 1, 2013,

CARRIED
The meeting adjourned at 6:03 pm.

Page 4 014

