ral Public Meeting
BROCKVILLE Economic Development &

‘GIVOF THE 1000 ISLANDS Plani

Tuesday, October 03, 2017,
COMMITTEE MINUTES City Hall, Council Chambers:

Committee Members:
Councillor D. LeSueur, Chair

Councillor J. Baker

Councillor J. Earle

Councillor M. Kalivas

Councillor Mayor D. Henderson, Ex-Officio

Other Council Members:
Councillor P. Deery

Stat
J. Faurschou, Planner I
L. Murray, Deputy City Clerk (Recording Secretary)

‘The Chair called the meeting to order at 6:00 pm.
REPORT

1. 2017-10-10
Proposed Amendments to the Official Plan
and Zoning By-law 050-2014,
100 Strowger Bivd., Apex Building,
City of Brockville, Owner: Apex Logistics Inc.,
Agent: Collett Surveying, Brent Collett

Moved by: Councillor Earle
THAT Report 2017-10-10 be received as information and that a report on
this matter be prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic
Development Planning Committee (EDP) at a future meeting.

CARRIED
Councillor LeSueur, Chair, introduced the Public Meeting and read from the
prepared required comments.

Page 1 of 2

Economic Development and Planning Committee Public Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, October 03, 2017

J. Faurschou announced that Notice of the Public Meeting was advertised in
the Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper on September 7, 2017 and
was circulated to property Owners within 120.0 metres (400.0 feet) of the
subject property and various Agencies and Departments. In addition, signs
were posted on the subject property advising that the lands are the subject
of an Application for Amendment to City of Brockville Official Plan and
Zoning By-law 050-2014.

Councillor LeSueur, Chair, asked that any person wanting further notice of
the passage of the proposed amendments should give their full name,
address, e-mail and postal code to the Secretary prior to leaving the
meeting. Councillor LeSueur identified that "Request for Information Sheets’
were located at the back of the room.

Councillor LeSueur reviewed the procedures for the Public Meeting.

J. Faurschou provided an overview of the proposed amendments to the
official plan and zoning by-law.

Agent for the Applicant Brent Collett was present and spoke in favour of the
amendments.

The meeting adjourned at 6:38 pm.

‘No person completed the Request for Information form.

Page 2 of 2

