Qa Public Meeting

BROCKVILLE Economic Development &

COMMITTEE MINUTES Tuesday, April 04, 2017,

@ 1000 1SLANOS Plani

City Hall, Council Chambers

Committee Members:
Councillor D. LeSueur, Chair
Councillor J. Baker
Councillor J. Earle
Councillor M. Kalivas

Stat

D. Golledge, Administrative Coordinator, Planning
‘A. McGinnis, Planner II
L. Murray, Deputy City Clerk (Recording Secretary)

‘The Chair called the meeting to order at 6:00 pm.

ITEM

1.

Page 1 of 4

2017-034-04
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014

414 King Street West, Brockville

Owner: Lanark Leeds & Grenville Addictions & Mental Health

Moved by: Councillor Earle

THAT Report 2017-034-04 be received as information and that a report on
this matter be prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic
Development Planning Committee at a future meeting.

CARRIED

Councillor LeSueur, Chair, introduced the public meeting and read from the
prepared required comments.

‘A. McGinnis announced that notice of the Public Meeting was advertised in
the Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper on March 2, 2017 and was
circulated to property owners within 120.0 metres (400.0 feet) of the
subject property. In addition, signs were posted on the subject property

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting
Minutes - Tuesday, April 04, 2017

advising that the lands are the subject of an Application for Amendment to
the City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014.

Councillor LeSueur, Chair, asked that any person wanting further notice of
the passage of the proposed amendment should give their full name,
address and postal code to the Secretary prior to leaving the meeting,

Councillor LeSueur reviewed the procedures for the Public Meeting.
‘A. McGinnis provided an overview of the proposed zoning amendment.

Lori Dube representing the Owner was in attendance and spoke in favour the
zoning amendment.

Emily Zufelt Boulerice owner of 418 King Street West, disagreed with the
stacked parking. She feels that all the cars backing out will cause dangerous
situations and will be a potential for collisions. She would like to see the
building rebuilt as it was, two story not a bungalow. Also the proposed
curbing will direct all the rain into her properties laneway.

James MacKenzie of 399 King Street West stated that the stacked parking
will not work. He said that every two hours there are workers going in and
out of the building; this would cause a parking disaster.

Peter and Linda Bosch of 405 King Street West feel the stacked parking is an
issue. Peter explained that this Is a very dangerous spot there is a blind spot
coming in from the west. Also what will they do with snow removal?

Margaret Wicklum of 420 King Street West agreed that this lot Is very close
to a curve where there is no clear view to the west. She reminded everyone
that King Street is the alternate route when the 401 is closed. She has seen
it several times over the years where traffic many being transport trucks
creeping along the street. There is then no opportunity for an anyone to
enter into this traffic,

Scott Fenemore from 410 King Street West feels the building is far too large
for the lot. He stated that this building will extend way back into the rear
yard leaving his back yard with very little privacy.

Councillor Baker asked why this design is being proposed rather than status
quo.

Page 2 of 4

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting
Minutes - Tuesday, April 04, 2017

Dave Poole of Eastern Engineering Group responded that it is a very
challenging property. He said the building must be a certain square footage
and all on one level to make it accessible. He indicated that if it was two
stories’ it would require an elevator which would add a large expense to the
budget.

Councillor Baker stated that he will not support the stacked parking.
‘The meeting adjourned at 6:52 pm.

The Request for Information Sheets are on file in the Clerk’s Office.

‘The Chair called the meeting to order at 6:53 pm.

2.

Page 3 of 4

2017-033-04
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014
54, 56, 58 and 60 Pearl Street East, Brockville
Owners: Iran and Mehrab Saidi

Moved by: Councillor Baker

THAT Report 2017-03-04 be received as information and that a report on
this matter be prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic
Development Planning Committee at a future meeting.

CARRIED

Councillor LeSueur, Chair, introduced the public meeting and read from the
prepared required comments.

A. McGinnis announced that notice of the Public Meeting was advertised in
the Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper on March 2, 2017 and was
circulated to property owners within 120.0 metres (400.0 feet) of the
subject property. In addition, signs were posted on the subject property
advising that the lands are the subject of an Application for Amendment to
the City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014.

Councillor LeSueur, Chair, asked that any person wanting further notice of
the passage of the proposed amendment should give their full name,
address and postal code to the Secretary prior to leaving the meeting.

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting
Minutes - Tuesday, April 04, 2017

Page 4 of 4

Councillor LeSueur reviewed the procedures for the Public Meeting.
A. McGinnis provided an overview of the proposed zoning amendment. He
indicated that Mr. Youko Leclerc-Desjardins of Fotenn Consultants Inc. was
present this evening, should the Committee have any questions.

Mr. Leclere-Desjardins stated they are just looking to divide the four merged
properties to four separate properties.

No persons spoke against this application.
‘The meeting concluded at 7:12 pm.

‘No persons completed the Request for Information form.

