Pago 1 of 41

ray Economic Development and
BROCKVILLE Planning Committee
‘ervOF HE ooo SANE Tuesday, October 1, 2013, 5:15 pm.

Gity Hall, Council Chambers

Committee Members ‘Aroas of Responsibiliy
Councilor M.Kalivas, Chair Economic Development Economic Development
Councillor J. Baker Planning Advisory Team
Councilor T. Blanchard Chamber of Commerce Museum Board
Councillor M. MeFall DBIA brary Board
Mayor D. Henderson, Heritage Brockville ‘Acts Centre
ExOfficio Tourism

Page COMMITTEE AGENDA

DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST
DELEGATION(S) AND PRESENTATION(S)

3-20 1. YMCA of Brockuille and Area
Sueling Ching, Chief Executive Officer

‘Ms. Ching will present the Brockville YMCA's New Strategic Plan to the
Committee.

(CORRESPONDENCE
Nil

‘STAFF REPORTS

21-391, 2018-111-10
Noise By-law

41. THAT a new By-law, being a by-law to contol noise in the Cty of Brockile be adopted.
2. THAT City of Brackvile By-law 138-80 be rescinded intl as ofthe dat that final
approvals granted by the Ministry ofthe Attorney General

40-441

Pago 2 of 41

Economic Development and Planning Committee
October 1, 2013

2. 2018-113-10
‘Appointment of Area Weed Inspectors

THAT City Council authorize the appointment of the positions of Chief
Building Official and Inspection Officers as Area Weed Inspectors under the
Weed Control Act; and

THAT City Council authorize the City Clerk to submit the necessary by-law(s)
directly to Council for when it is deemed necessary to:

i. appoint an employee as an area weed inspector under the Weed Control
Act;

fi repeal the appointment of an area weed inspector as a result of changes in
‘employment or duties; or

lil, o make technical amendments to current appointments (for example, 10
reflect a name change).

NEW BUSINESS - REPORT FROM MEMBERS OF COUNCIL
Nil

CONSENT AGENDA
ADJOURNMENT

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee adjourned its
‘meeting until the next regular meeting scheduled for Novernber 4, 2013.


Creating the plan...

* Board and staff analysis of our YMCA strengths, weaknesses,
opportunities, threats

* Environmental scan and analysis

* Community consultations with local government, health and children’s
mental health

* Strategic planning committee of the board to create mission, vision and
strategic directions

+ Action planning committee of staff to create tactics

* Consultative expertise from Emmett & Associates


The Community We Have

* Highest ever social assistance case load.

* 667 social housing units available in the community and a growing
demand for rent to income properties, especially for seniors and
single adults over the age of 50 years.

* 100 people on waiting list for long-term care, currently only 60 beds
available.

* The need for all types of care for seniors is growing.

* The “Grey Tsunami” is top of mind in the community, housing, senior
care needs, physical activity.

* 80% of children in licensed home care, are subsidized.

* Full day kindergarten has increased the demand for Early Childhood
Educators in the community.

* There is an identified need to support seniors to maintain their
independence.

* Senior care needs are greatest in Brockville, Prescott and Gananoque.


The Community We Have

+ High incidence of chronic diseases in the community. The opportunity
exists to influence healthy lifestyles.

+ Higher smoking rates in the community than the rest of Ontario.

* 1/3 of people physically active, 1/3 of people active 30 minutes per day,
1/3 of people not physically active.

* 60% of the population of Brockville and area is either overweight or
obese; this has an impact on chronic disease.

+ Higher incidence of alcohol abuse and cannabis use in young men which
continues in adult years.

* 20% of young people report anxiety, depression and substance abuse.
Early recognition of mental health issues critical.

+ Healthy child development critical, especially in the first 6 years of life.

+ Physical falls is the main reason for visits to the hospital — prevention of
falls and being physically active will help seniors to maintain their balance
and their overall health.


The Community We Have

+ There is a huge opportunity to influence healthy nutrition and physical
activity to prevent health issues.

* Current caseload for Children’s Mental Health is 1,200 kids a year and
could easily be double the need for support.

* Critical transportation barriers for children outside of Brockville.

+ 1in5 children in Ontario have mental health issues and early intervention
is critical.

+ Access to recreation, day camp, kids clubs and play opportunities seen
as critical supports. The Y is viewed as a key partner for these activities.

+ Aging population is seen as a large emerging issue for the community.

+ Agrowing divide between those who have and those who don't.

+ Require more regional cooperation to serve the population — 27 levels of
government to administer 35,000 people is no longer relevant.


The Community We Have

This is the first generation of
children that is not expect to live as
long as their parents. Why?

¢ Poverty

¢ Unhealthy Lifestyles

* Childhood Obesity

The Community We Want

* Job creation

* Healthy and happy people

* Economically stable

* 1 government for Brockville and area **
*  Collaboration/Partnerships *

* Healthy Living *

* Working together

* Moving forward

* Jobs for youth

+ Learning

* Bringing generations together

* Higher levels of education

* Open doors — especially to newcomers to Canada

mA...

The YMCA We Need

coming
Health.
Community

Innovative e

usive
Phe
rust
Fy

urrenti
OT
Tinpacctur
‘Hub

trong

ro
Preferred ChoiceS
Olnspi

Oc

i

ngs
“5
8
a

Leader

Values

Caring — Honesty
Respect — Responsibility

Inclusiveness

Vision

The YMCA of Brockville
and Area is a community
catalyst for healthy living,
personal development
and social responsibility.

Mission

Strengthening community
is Our cause.

Transforming lives is what
we do.

ocx

Strategic Plan 2013-2017

Ignite.
Inspire.
Innovate.

Strategic Objectives

To achieve our vision, this plan focuses on four key strategic objectives.
These objectives are interdependent — the achievement in one area will
strengthen our capacity to achieve outcomes in another area.


Growth — My Y Open

Expand our reach;

* Grow membership and participation through
program and facility renewal.

* €xtend programs and services to underserved
communities

* Increase engagement and services to various
demographics Y¥

é
We

Iwi

Impact — My Changes Lives

Inspire Healthy Living;

Ignite community change through advocacy,
collaboration and education

Provide the information, motivation and
opportunities for individuals to pursue healthy
living - spirit, mind and body.

Engage and develop leaders and volunteers in
our communities.

Y

A ees

ey

Value — My Y is a Change Maker

Build our brand;

* Increase awareness of the community value of
our YMCA.

* Create a philanthropic culture that results in
increased impact/access.

* Develop strategic partnerships that align with our
values and goals.

A ees

Y

ey

Excellence — My Y is Strong

Deliver our promise;

* Inspire staff and volunteers to deliver on the
brand promise.

* Meet or exceed benchmarks for service
standards, program quality, financial ratios and
organizational strength.

* Increase capacity through innovation.

A ees

Y

ey

Together we are...

building Healthy

Communities

Page 2t of 41

20SEPTEMBER2013
REPORT TO THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING COMMITTEE
1OCTOBER2013,

2013-11-10
NOISE BY-LAW M. PASCOE MERKLEY
DIRECTOR OF PLANNING
ANDREW MCGINNIS
PLANNER I

RECOMMENDATION

1. THAT 2 new By-law, being @ by-law to control noise in the City of Brockville be
adopted,

2. THAT City of Brockville By-law 138-80 be rescinded in full as of the date that final
approval is granted by the Ministry of the Attorney General

PURPOSE

The purpose of this report is to provide recommendation on adopting a new by-law
‘which would replace By-law 138-80, being a by-law to control noise within the City of
Brockville.

BACKGROUND
City of Brockville By-law 138-80, was adopted on 22 July 1980.

Recently, staff began to undertake a review of Noise By-law 138-80 as amended, and
‘made recommendations to Council respecting a revised noise by-law. Multiple meeting
were held, agency recommendations were taken into consideration and a draft of a new
by-law to control noise in the City of Brockville was endorsed by Council on 10 January
2013, to be set to the Ministry of the Attorney general for draft approval

ANALYSIS

City staff have since received draft approval from the Ministry provided that minor
format changes are incorporated into the schedule to the by-law. These changes were
very minor and did not change the intent of the initial by-law accepted by Council in
January 2013 (a copy of the proposed By-law is attached as Schedule “A”).

However, an addition of set fines has been established and set at $300.00 per infraction
(a Set Fine list is attached as Schedule “B"). This set fine was determined by looking
at five (5) comparable cities which had set fines ranging from $150.00 to $400.00. Staff

Page 2201 41
Report 2013-11-01 Page 2
Noise By-law

believes that setting the fine at $300.00 will deter persons from continuing and/or having
‘a reoccurring offence pertaining to a violation of the noise by-law.

POLICY IMPLICATIONS:

Section 128 of the Municipal Act, 2001, provides that a municipality may prohibit and
regulate with respect to public nuisances, including matters that in the opinion of
Council are or could become public nuisances;

Section 129 of the Municipal Act, 2001, provides that a municipality may pass bylaws to
prohibit and regulate with respect to noise;

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS

‘As previously stated in Report 2013-010-01, the revised by-law proposes the
establishment of fees for processing applications for exemption to the noise by-law, and
for processing of appeals filed respecting decisions on applications filed for exemption,
The fees will be established through the City’s User Fee By-law.

Fines issued are paid to the Provincial Offences Court and collected by the Province.
(Ff the $300.00 proposed charge, the court retains $5.00 for their administration fee and
@ victim surcharge of $50.00 is set to the Ministry of the Attomey General. The
remaining $245.00 of each charge is issued back to the City of Brockvile on a quarterly
basis.

‘CONCLUSION

‘Staff recommend that Council adopt the new by-law and submit it back to the Ministry fo final
approval

M. Maureen Pascoe-Merkjéy, MCIP, RPP
Director of Planning

fe

5. Casselman
City Manager


SCHEDULE “A” TO REPORT 2013-111-10

City of Brockville

Ontario, Canada

A By-Law to
Control Noise in the City of Brockville

By-Law No. xxx-2013

Enacted by Council October 1, 2013

Page 23 01 41

Page 24 1 41

‘The Corporation of the City of Brockville
By-law Number 080-2013

‘A By-law to Contr! Noise in the City of Brockville

WHEREAS Section 128 of the Municipal Act, 2001, provides that a municipalty may prohibit
_and regulate with respect to public nuisances, including matters thatin the opinion of Council are or
‘could become public nuisances;

AND WHEREAS Section 129 of the Municipal Act, 2001, provides that a municipality my
pass bylaws to prohibit and regulate with respect to noise;

AND WHEREAS in the opinion of Council for the Corporation of the City of Brockville,
‘excessive sounds and inadequately controlled noise may impair public health, safety and welfar
and could become a public nuisance;

AND WHEREAS isitthe opinion of Council for the Corporation of the City of Brockville, that
oe the benefit of individuals and the public at large, there must be regulations and prohibitions to
the making of noise;

NOW THEREFORE, the Council of the Corporation of the City of Brockvile enacts as
follows:

(1) Interpretation
In this bylaw,

(@) “approved sound meter” shall mean an instrument meeting American National
Standard Institute's Standard Si-4-1971 or the most recent revision thereof for
‘Type 1 or Type 2 sound meters, or an instrument and the associated recording
‘and analyzing equipment that will provide equivalent data;

(©) Construction
“construction” includes erection, alteration, repair, dismanting, demoliion, structural
maintenance, painting, moving land clearing, earth moving, grading, excavating, the
laying of pipe and conduit whether above or below ground level, street and highway
building, concreting, equipment installation and alteration and the structural
Installation of constriction components and materials in any form or for any purpose,
and includes any work in connection therewith;

(©) Construction Equipment
construction equipment” means any equipment or device designed and intended
{or use in construction or material handling, inciuding but not limited to, air
compressors, pile drivers, pneumatic or hydraulic tools, bulldozers, tractors,
excavators, trenchers, cranes, derricks, loaders, scrapers, pavers, generators,
heaters, fans, boilers, of-highways haulers or trucks, dtchers, compactors and
rollers, pumps, concrete mixers, graders or other material handing equipment;

@

onveyance

"Conveyance" includes a vehicle and any other device employed to transport a
person or persons or goods from place to place but does not include any such
device or vehicle if operated only within the premises of a person;

Page 2501 41

City of Brockville
By-law Number x%-2013 ‘ABy-Law to Control Noise in the City of Brockville

©

0

O)

()

0)

0

()

0

(mm)

()

©

O)

ouncit
*Counci means the Council ofthe Corporation of the Municipality of Brockville

BA
"dBA" means the sound level in decibels obtained when using a sound level
meter withthe A-weighting;

‘Highway
highway" Includes a common and public highway, street, avenue, parkway,
driveway, square, place, bridge, viaduct or resle designed and intended fo, or used
by, the general public forthe passage of vehicles:

Minister
“Minister means Minister of the Environment
Ministry
Ministry’ means Ministry of the Environment:

Motor Vehicle

motor vehicle” includes an automobile, motorcycle, and any other vehicle propelled
Cr driven otherwise than by muscular power; but does not include the cars of electric
fF steam railways, or other motor vehicies running only upon rails, or a motorized
‘snow vehicle, traction engine, farm tractor, self-propelled implement of husbandry or
road-bulling machine within the meaning of The Highway Traffic Act,

Motorized Convevance
“motorized conveyance" means a conveyance propelled or driven otherwise han by
‘muscular, gravitational or wind power,

Municipality
municipality” means the land within the geographic limit of the Municipality of
Brockville:

Nolse
“noise” means unwanted sound prohibited inthis by-law;

Persistent
“persistent” means continuing to exist or endure over a prolonged period
exceeding 15 minutes.

Point of Reception
point of reception’ means any point on the premises of @ person where sound
Ctiginatng from other than those premises is received;

“sound level” shall mean the total sound level in decibels of all sound as
‘measured with an approved sound meter wit a reference pressure of 20,
rmicro-pascals using the “A weighted network (scale) at slow response,
‘The unit of measurement shall be defined as dB(A) or dBA.


Page 26.1 41

City of Brockville
By-law Number 100-2013 ‘A By-Law to Control Noise inthe City of Brockville

@

Zones
In this bylaw

(a) Residential Area

Residential Area" means those areas of the municipality specified as follows:
“residential area” means any area in the City of Brockville designated for residential
se in any by-iaw in force from time to time passed pursuant to secton 34 of the
Planning Act, R.S.0. 1990, ¢P.13, or any predecessor or successor of that section.

(©) Quiet Zone

"Quel Zone” means those areas of the municipality specified as follows:
“quietzone" means an area of the municipality so designated by Councilin Appendix
‘of this by-law as a place where quiets of a particular importance, such as, but not
limited to, the immediate vicinity of a hospital

(©) Agricultural Area

“Rgneultural Area” means those areas of the municipality speciied as follows:
“agricultural area” means any area in the City of Brockvile designated for agricultural
se in any by-aw in force from time to time passed pursuant to section 34 of the
Planning Act, R.S.O. 1990, c.P.13, or any predecessor or successor of that section.

‘Administration and Delegation of Authority

(1) The Planning Departmentis responsible forthe administration ofthis by aw

2) Peace Orfcors, Provincial Offences Officers and Municipal Law Enforcement
Offers with the authorty to enfres the bylaws ofthe Municipaly are responsible
for enforcing the provisions of this by-law.

(3) The Chief Planning Officer or his/her designate is delegated the authority to grant
temporary exemptions to this by-law.

General prohibitions

‘No person shall emit or cause or permit the emission of sound resulting from an act listed
herein, and which sound is clearly audible ata point of reception:

(1) Racing of any motorized conveyance other than in a racing event regulated by
law.

(2) The operation of a motor vehice in such a way that the tres squeal.

(3) The operation of a residential air conditioner, pool pump or filter, heat pump or
the lke that is notin proper working order and exceeds 50 dBA;

(4) The operation of any combustion engine or pneumatic device without an effective
‘exhaust or intake muffling device in good working order.

Page 27 of 41

City of Brockville
By-law Number xxx-2013 ABy-Law to Control Noise in the City of Brockville

(8) The operation of a vehicle or @ vehicle with a taller resulting in banging, clanking,
‘squealing or other ike sounds due to improperly secured load or equipment, or
inadequate maintenance.

(6) The operation of an engine or motorin, or on, any motor vehicle or item of attached
‘auxiliary equipment fora continuous period exceeding five (5) minutes, while such
Vehicle is stationary in a Residential Area or a Quiet Zone unless:

(i) theoriginal equipment manufacturer specifically recommends a longer idling
period for normal and efficient operation ofthe motor vehicle in which case
‘such recommended period shall not be exceeded: of,

(i) operation of such engine or motor is essential to a basic function of the
vehicle or equipment, including but not imited to, operation of ready-mixed
‘concrete trucks, lt platforms and refuse compactors; or,

(ii) weather conditions justify the use of heating or refrigerating systoms
Powered by the motor or engine forthe safety and welfare of the operator,
passengers or animals, or the preservation of perishable cargo, and the
‘vehicle is stationary for purposes of delvery or loading; or,

(iv) prevailing low temperatures make longer idling periods necessary
Immediately after starting the motor or engine; of

(¥) the iling is for the purpose of cleaning and flushing the radiator and
‘associated circulation system for seasonal change of antifreeze, cleaning of
{the fuel system, carburetor or the lke, when such work is performed other
than for profit.

(7) The operation ofa motor vehicle horn or other waming device except where required
(or authorized by law or in accordance with good safety practices,

(8) The operation of any item of construction equipment in a Quiet Zone or Residential
‘Area without effective muffing devices in good working order.

(2) Use of construction equipment shall not create noise likely to cause a nuisance or
disturb the inhabitants or exceed 85 dBA when measured at the point of reception,

4. Exemption
Public Safety
‘Notwithstanding any other provision ofthis by-law, it shall be lawful during an emergency

to.emit or cause or permit the emission of sound in connection with emergency measures
undertaken:

(a) forthe immediate health, safety or welfare of the inhabitants or any of them: or,

(b) for the preservation or restoration of property; unless such sound is clearly of a
longer duration or nature more disturbing, than is reasonably necessary for the
accomplishment of such emergency purpose,

Page 28 01 41

City of Brockville
By-law Number 00-2013 ‘A By-Law to Control Noise in the City of Brockville

5. Grant of Exemption
(1) Application for Temporary Exemption (up to 3 months)
(1) Application

"Notwithstanding anything contained inthis by-law, any person may make application
to the Chief Planning Officer to be granted an exemption from any ofthe provisions
ofthis bylaw.

‘The application shall be made in writing atleast thity (30) days prior tothe event or
‘activity and shall contain, at a minimum, the following information:

2) the name and address of the applicant;

b) the name and address of the organization represented by the applicant. if

plicable:

c) a description of the source of sound in respect of which the exemption is
sought:

4) drawing ofthe proposed property showing the location ofthe noise source
that is the subject of the exempton and the distance to the nearest
residential use that may be effected;

) the particular provision or provisions of the by-law from which the exemption
Is sought;

1) the period of time, ofa duration notin excess of three (3) months, for which
the exemption is sought;

19) the location of the event or activity for which the exemption is sought;

hh) the reason why the exemption should be granted; and,

1) the applicable fee as set out in the Cy's Fee By-iaw.

(2) Decision

In deciding whether to grant the exemption, the Chief Planning Oficer or hisher
designate may require that notification be given

‘The Chief Pianning Officer or histher designate may refuse to grant any exemption
‘oF may grant the exemption applied for or any exemption of lesser effect and any
‘exemption granted shall specify the time period, notin excess of three (3) months,
during which itis effective and may contain such terms and conditions as the Chief
Planning Officer or isMer designate sees fit

(3) Appeals

Where the Chief Planning Officer or histher designate refuses to grantan exemption
Under this section, the Chief Planning Officer or hisiher designate shall notify in
iting, the applicant and any other person who had requested notification, advising
them that they may appeal the decision within ten (10) days of the date ofthe notice.

‘This appeal shall be requested in writing accompanied by the applicable fee as set
‘ut in the City’s Fee By-law to the City Clerk of the Corporation of the City of
Brockvile. The appropriate standing committee shall hold a hearing pursuant othe


Page 2901 41

City of Brockvile
Bylaw Number 200-2013 ‘ABy-Law to Control Noise in the City of Brockville

provisions of the Statutory Powers Procedure Act within thity (30) working days of
the City Clerk's receipt for a hearing.

‘Such committee may:
(a) Issue an exemption;
(b) Refuse to issue an exemption: or
(©) Issue an exemption with conditons
‘The committees decision on the appeal is final

(4) Appeal of Conditions of Approval
Where the Chief Planning Officer or his/her designate grants an exemption with
conditions under this section, the Chief Planning Otficer or hisfher designate shall
‘oly in writing, the applicant and any other person who had requested notification,
‘advising them that they may appeal the decision within ten (10) days of the date of,
the notice.
‘This appeal shall be requested in writing accompanied by the applicable fee as set,
ut in the City’s Fee By-law to the City Clerk of the Corporation of the City of
Brockville. The appropriate standing committee shall old a hearing pursuant to the
provisions of the Statutory Powers Procedure Act within thity (30) working days of
the City Clerk's receipt for a hearing
‘Such committee may:
(2) Dismiss the appeal;
(b) Amend the conditions of approval; or
(c) Withdraw the approval and refuse the exemption;
‘The committee's decision on the appeal is final

(5) Breach

Breach by the applicant of any ofthe terms or conditions of any exemption granted
shall render the exemption null and void

(2) Application for Exemption (greater than 3 months)
(1) Apglication

"Notwithstanding anything contained in this by-law, any person may make application
to Council to be granted an exemption from any of the provisions of this by-law.

‘The application shall be made in writing atleast sixty (60) days prior to the event or
activity and shall contain, at a minimum, the folowing information:

2) the name and address of the applicant;
b) the name and address of the organization represented by the applicant, if
‘applicable,

Page 3001 41

City of Brockville
By-law Number 300-2013 ABy-Law to Control Noise in the City of Brockville

©) a description of the source of sound in respect of which the exemption is
sought:

4) _adrawing of the proposed property showing the location ofthe noise source
that is the subject of the exemption and the distance to the nearest
residential use that may be effected;

€) the particular provision or provisions ofthe by-iaw from which the exemption
is sought,

1) the period of time for which the exemption is sought,

'9) the location of the event or activity for which the exemption is sought;

h) the reason why the exemption should be granted: and,

|) the applicable fee as set out in the City’s Fee By-iaw,

(2) Decision

In deciding whether to grant the exemption, notification isto be given to persons
within 120.0 metres (393.0 feet) in order to provide those persons in support or
‘opposed to the application an opportunity to be heard and may consider such other
matters as Council sees fit

‘Council may refuse to grant any exemption or may grant the exemption applied for or
any exemption of lesser effect and any exemption granted shall specify the time
period during which itis effective and may contain such terms and conditions as
Council sees ft

Councils decision to issue an exemption, refuse to issue an exemption or to set
terms and conditions for the exemption is final

(3) Breach

Breach by the applicant of any of the terms or conditions of any exemption granted
shall render the exemption null and void.

3. Exemption of Traditional, Festive or Religious Activities

Notwithstanding any other provision ofthis by-law, this by-law does not apply to @ person
\who emits or causes or permits the emission of sound in connection with any ofthe listed
traditonal, festive, religious and other activites.

(1) Festivities in connection with statutory hotidays.

(2) Oficial Cy festvites or testivtes authortzed by the City

(3) The use of bets or chimes normally associated with muricpal or church activites,

(4) The collection of Municipal garbage and refuse by or on behalf of the Cy of
Brockville.

(5) The plowing and removal of snow by or on behalf ofthe City of Brockile

(©) The sancing and sling of eads and sidewaks by or on behal of he City of

vl.
(7). The sweeping ofsteets by or on behalf ofthe City of Brockville.
(8) Anyroadand sewer maintenance activites by, oron behalf, te City of Brockville,

Page 8

Page 31 of 41

City of Brockville
By-law Number xxx-2013 ‘ABy-Law to Control Noise in the City of Brockville

7. Prohibitions by Time, Place and Sound Levels
(2) Noporson shall emit or cause or permit the emission of sound resuting from any at

listed in Table 1 if clearly audible at a point of reception located in an area of the
‘municipality indicated within a prohibited time shown for such an area.

(©) Noperson shall make, cause or permit to be made within the City of Brockville a
continuous sound with sound level that, measured at a point of reception on an
‘approved sound meter, exceeds allowable sound levels noted in Table 2.

8. Severability
ita court of competent juiscction shoul declare any section or partofa section of this byiaw
tobe inva, such secton or par ofa section shall not be construed as having persuaded or

influenced Counc to pass the remainder of the by-law and itis hereby deciared that the
remainder of the by-law shall be valid and shall remain in force.

9. Penalty Provis
‘Any person who contravenes and provision of this By:1aw is guity of an offence and, upon
‘conviction, is subject toa fine as provided inthe Provincial Offences Act, as amended, and to
‘any other applicable penalties.

10. Site Si jons

1) That Black & Decker Canada Inc. be granted relief to this by-law with respect to snow
plowing atthe location known municipally as 100 Central Avenue, Brockvile.

14. Short Title
This By-law may be referred to as the “Noise By-law’.
‘Given Under the Seal ofthe Corporation of the

City of Brockville
‘and Passed this 24", day of September, 2013

Mayor City Clerk

Page 9

Page 3201 41
City of Brockville
By-law Number 10%-2013 ‘ABy-Law to Control Noise in the City of Brockville

Tablet
PROHIBITIONS BY TIME, PLACE and SOUND LEVELS

Prohibited period of Time, Place and

Sound Levels.
—Guiet Zone —_—_Residential Area
4. The detonation of fireworks or explosive Atal times Atall times
devices not used in construction.
‘The discharge of firearms. Atall times Atall times

“The operation of a combustion engine which, At
(ts, 0°
(i), is used in, or
(ii) is intended for use in, a toy, ora model or
replica of any device, which model or
replica has no function other than
amusement and which is not a
conveyance.

times Atall times

4. The operation of any electronic device or Atal times B
‘group of connected electronic devices
Incorporating one or more loudspeakers or
other electro-mechanical transducers, and
intended for the production, reproduction or
‘amplification of Sound which may include

5. The operation of any auditory signaling Atal times Dae

device, including but not limited tothe ringing
(of bells oF gongs and the biowing of homs or
sirens of whistles, oF the production,
reproduction or amplification of any similar
sounds by electronic means, except where
required or authorized by law of in
‘accordance with good safety practices,

6 The operation of any powered rail car tall mes. 8
1cluding But not limited to retigeration cars,

locomotives or self-propelled passenger cars,

while stationary on property not owned oF

controlled by @ railway governed by the

‘Canada Railway Act.

7. The operation of any motorized conveyance Atal times 8
other than on a highway or other place
intended forts operation.

Page 10

City of Brockvile

By-law Number 200-2013

Page 33.01 41

‘A By-Law to Control Noe in the City of Brockville

10.

1"

12

13.

4.

18.

16.

17.

18

‘The venting, release or pressure relief of air,
‘steam or other gaseous material, product or
‘compound from any autociave, boiler,
pressure vessel pipe, valve, machine, device
or system.

Persistent barking, calling or whining or other
similar persistent noise making by any
domestic pet

“The operation of @ commercial car wash with
air drying equipment.

Yeling, shouting, hooting, whistling, or
singing,

‘The operation of a power assisted hang glider
or parafoil.

‘The operation of any item of snow making
equipment.

Al selling or advertsing by shouting or outery
‘or ampitied sound.

Loading, unloading, delivering, _ packing.
‘unpacking, or otherwise handling any
‘containers, products, materials, or refuse,
whatsoever, unless necessary for the
maintenance of essential services or the
‘moving of private household effects.

The operation of any equipment in connection
with construction.

‘The operation or use of any tool for domestic
purposes other than snow removal

‘The operation of a commercial car wash of a
type other than mentioned in item 10.

Prohibited period of Time, Place and

‘Sound Levels

Quiet Zone,
‘Atall times

Atall times

Atall times

Atall times

A

Atal times

Atall times

Dae

Dae

Residential Area
in

Dse

Dae

Dae

Dae

Dae

Page 11

Page 3401 41

City of Brockvile
Bylaw Number 200-2013 ‘A By-Law to Control Noise inthe City of Brockville
‘Suggested Restricted Times:
‘A. 23:00 one day to 07:00 next day (08:00 Sundays)
B_ 21:00 one day to 07:00 next day (09:00 Sundays)
© 17:00 one day to 07:00 next day (08:00 Sundays)
D__Allday Sundays and Statutory Holidays
E 19:00 one day to 07.00 next day.

Page 12

City of Brockville
By-law Number xxx-2013

Page 3501 41

‘A.By-Law to Control Noise in the City of Brockville

PROHIBITIONS BY TIME, PLACE and SOUND LEVELS

Type of Land Use

Residential

Quiet Zone

‘Agricultural

Table 2

Time interval

Nighttime
Daytime

Night-time
Daytime

Nightime
Daytime

50
55

50
50

65
70

Maximum Allowable
‘Sound Level (4bA)

Page 13

SCHEDULE “B” TO REPORT 2013-111-10
City of Brockville

Part 1 Provincial Offences Act

By-law xxx-2013, Noise Control

‘COLUWNT
‘Short Form Wording

‘COLUMN

Provision Creating or Defining

Oftence

‘COLUMNS

Set Fine

roducing sound Geariy audbw on another person's property
by racing a motorized conveyance.

‘Section Hy

$300.00

“Squeaing tires 50 9 to produce sound audibe onthe
premises of another person.

Section 32)

$300.00

Permit the operation of a residential ar condltoner. poo!
pump or fter, heat pump or the lke in excess of 60 dBA

‘Section I)

$500.00

Producing sound Geariy audbie on he premises of another
person by the operation of a combustion engine (pneumatic
‘evce) without a mute.

Section 3a)

$500.00

Producing Sound dearly audbve on anciher person's property
by the operation ofa vehicle or alee with an impropery
‘secured oad,

‘Seaton 515)

$300.00

Producing sound clearly audible on another person's property
by te operation of stationary vehicle's engine while in a
Residential or Quiet Zone.

‘Section 6)

$500.00

Producing Sound Gearly audbve on another person's property
by the operation ofa motor vehicle hom not authorized by
tow

Section 37

$300.00

Producing sound dearly audbi sound na Quiet Zone or
Residential Area from construction equipment without working
muffing device

‘Section 8)

$500.00

Producing sound exceeding 85 dBA fom consirucion
‘equioment

‘Section 8)

$300.00

70

Producing sound Gearly audibie on another person's property,
by the detonation of freworks in a Residential or Quel Zone

‘Seaton Tay

$300.00

7

Producing sound Gearly audible on another person's property
by the dscharge ofa frearm in a Residential o Quet Zone,

‘Section Tay

$300.00

7

Producing sound dearly audbie on another person's property
by the operaten ofa combustion engine in a toy oF model in &
Residential or Qet Zone.

Section Tay

$500.00

73.

Producing sound Geariy audbve on ance person's property
by elecvonie amptication of sound in a Quiet Zone.

‘Seaton Way

$500.00

7%

Producing sound dearly audbie on another person's property
by elecronic ampiiicaion of sound in a Residential Zone
between 9 pr through to 7 am Monday to Saturday.

Section Tay

$300.00

Note:The general penalty provisions fr the offences listed above is Section 9 of Bylaw 200-2013, a certiied copy of which has been fed.

ly 1o9e 966

City of Brockville
Part 1 Provincial Offences Act
By-law xxx-2013, Noise Control

‘COLUWNT
Short Foxm Wording

‘COLUMN
Prov

Creating or Defring

‘COLUMNS

‘Set Fine

76

Producing sound Geariy audible on another person's property
by etectronic ampifcation of sound in a Residential Zone
hours of pm through to 9 am Sunday.

‘Seation Tay

$300.00

Producing sound Geary aude on another person's property
by operaton ofan auditor signaling deve in a Quiet Zone
‘and not authorized bylaw.

Secon 7a)

$500.00

7

Producing sound clearly audible on anather person's property
by operation ofan auditory signaling device In a Residential
one betwoen the hours of

Section 7a)

3500.05

76

Producing kound dearly audibe on another pamson’s property
by operation of a motorized conveyance i a place not
Intended for operation in a Quel Zone.

‘Sesion 7a)

$300.00

7

Producing sound carly audible on another's propery by
‘operation of @ moterized conveyance ina place not intended
for ts operation between the hours of 8pm and 7 amin 8
Residental Zone

‘Seaton Tay

$300.00

‘Producing Sound Gearly audible on another property by the
folease of gaseous substances in a Quiet Zone

‘Seaton 7a)

‘$300.00

Es

Prodcing sound carly audible on another's property by he
release of gaseous substances in a Resigeniial Zone between
41 pm and 7 am.

‘Section Tay

$0000

Permiting a domest pet to make a persist nose clearly
audible on another's property in a Quiet zone

‘Seaton Tay

$300.00

2

Permiting a domestic pet io make a persist nose clearly
‘audible on another's property in a Residential Zone between
41.pm and 7am,

‘Seaton Tay

$0000

‘Producing sound, dearly audible on another's propery by te
‘operation of @ commercial car wash with air drying equipment
inva Quit zone

‘Seaton Tay

‘$0000

Es

Producing sound, Geary audbie on anothers property by the
‘operation of a commercial car wash wah af drying equipment
ita Residential Zone between 7 pm and 7 am.

‘Seaton Tay

‘Smo

Producing sound, clearly aucbie on another property by he
‘operation of @ commercial car wash with ar drying equipment
Ina Residential Zone on Sunday ora Statutory Holiday,

‘Section May

$300.00

Note:The general penalty provision forthe offences listed above is section 9 of Byaw 01-2013, a cetited copy of which has been fled.

ly 1oze 9664

City of Brockville
Part 1 Provincial Offences Act
By-law 1x-2013, Noise Control

Tem | COLOMINT ‘COLUMN ‘COLUMNS

‘Short Form Wording Provision Creating of Defining Set Fine
fence

27. Yeling, wisting or snging Geary avaibve on anothers Section Tay 3300.00
property ina Quet Zone,

28,_| Velung, whstng oF singing Goay avdbie on arcihors Section Way 330000
property ina Residential Zone between 11 pm and 7 am,

2, | Producing sound, Clearly audible on another's propery by Section Tay $H000
‘operation of a power assisted hang ger ina Quiet Zone.

"30; | Producing sound, clearly audble on another's property by ‘Sacton Via) $300.00

‘operation of @ power assisted hang gider in a Residential
Zone between 7 pm and 7 am.

‘H-| Producing sound clearly audbie of aroihers propery by ‘Section Ta) $500.00
‘operation of a power assisted hang gider in a Residential
Zone on Sunday ata Statutory Holiday.

"32. | Producing sound, clearly audible on anothers property by ‘Section 7a) $500.00
‘operation of snow-making equipment in a Quiet Zone
"35__| Producing sound, clearly audible on anothe’s property by ‘Section a) $300.00

‘operation of snowmaking equipment ia a Residential zone
between 7 pm and 7 am.

34 | Producing sound, clearly auibie on anothers propery by ‘Section Ma) 30000
‘operation of construction equipment in a Residential Zone on
‘Sunday ora Statuary Hokay.

35, | Proaucing sound, Gearly aucbie on anothers property by Section Wa) ‘sw0000

‘operation of constuction equipment in a Residental Zone
between 7 pm and 7 am.

"36 | Producing sound, Garly audbie on anothers property by ‘Sacton May $300.00
‘operation of consirucion equipment in @ Quit zone on
Sunday ora Statutory Holiday

‘37. | Producing sound, clearly sudible on anche’ property by ‘Seaton Ta) $300.00
gperaton of corsiucion equpmentina Get zoe between
‘pm and 7 am.

"38. Producing sound, Cleary audibe on anathe’s property By ‘Section 7a) $300.00

‘operation of any foot used for domestc purposes (excent
‘snow removal ina Quiet Zone between 5 pm and 7 am.

Producing sound, dearly audible on another's property Dy the ‘Section ay 330000
‘operation of any too used for domestic purposes (except
‘show removal) na Residential Zone between 9 pm and 7 am.

Note:The general penalty provisions fr the offences listed above Is section 9 of Bylaw x0x-2013, @cetfied copy of which has been fled

lio ge 966

City of Brockville
Part 1 Provincial Offences Act
By-law 200%-2013, Noise Control

oo

Tiem | COLUWNT ‘COLUMN ‘COLUMNS
Short Form Wording Provision Creating or Defining Set Fine
Offence
“0. Producing sourd Geary audible on anathe’s propery by the ‘Section Ma) $300.00
‘operation of @ commercial car wash, not using a drying
equipment in 8 Quiet zone.
‘Produce sound greater than maximum allowable sound evel Section 7) $300.00

"Note: The general penalty provisions forthe offences listed above is section 9 of Bylaw 100-2013, a certified copy of which has been fled.

ly 1o6e 9865

Page 40 01 41

‘September 25, 2013

REPORT TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING COMMITTEE
October 1, 2013

2013-13-10
‘Appointment of Area Weed Inspectors Sandra Seale
City Clerk
Maureen Pascoe Merkley
Director of Planning
RECOMMENDED

‘THAT City Council authorize the appointment of the positions of Chief Building Official
and Inspection Officers as Area Weed Inspectors under the Weed Control Act; and

‘THAT City Council authorize the City Clerk to submit the necessary by-law(s) directly to
Council for when itis deemed necessary to:

|. appoint an employee as an area weed inspector under the Weed Control
Act,

ji. repeal the appointment of an area weed inspector as a result of changes
in employment or duties; or

ji, to make technical amendments to current appointments (for example, to
reflect a name change).

PURPOSE

‘The City is required to appoint one or more area weed inspectors by by-law, under
subsection 6(1) of the Weed Control Act. The purpose of the report is to request Council
approval for the appointments and to authorize the City Clerk to bring by-laws forward to
Council for ratification as deemed necessary for changes to the area weed inspectors’
appointments,

BACKGROUND

‘The Weed Control Act, as amended requires single-tier municipalities to appoint one or more
“area’ municipal weed inspectors by by-iaw under subsection 6(1) of the Weed Contr Act. The
Ministry of Agricuture, Food and Rural Affairs has contacted the City to confirm the appointed
area weed inspector(s).

ANALYSISIOPTIONS

In 2002, Brent Caskenette, as Deputy Chief Building Official was designated as "Municipal"
weed inspector as permitted under subsection 8(1) of the Weed Control Act. The subsequent
by-law to appoint Mr. Caskenette as Chief Bulding Official did not include the appointment as
weed inspector,


Page 41 of 41
Report 2013-113-10
Appointment of Weed Inspectors Page 2

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS.

Remuneration of duties undertaken as an area weed inspectors included in the remuneration
received as a City employee.

CONCLUSION
‘The adoption ofthis report wil allow the City to meet the requirements under the Weed Control

‘Act with respect to changes in appointments of area weed inspectors and identification of new
‘area weed inspectors in an expeditious manner.

City Clerk Director of Planning

a

B. Casselman
City Manager

