Page 1 of 148

a Economic Development and

BROCCMILE Planning Committee
BROCKVILLE Tuesday, May 2, 2017, 00 pm

ity Hall, Council Chambers

Committee Members Areas of Responsibility
Councillor D. LeSueur, Economic Development Economic Development
Chair Planning Advisory Team.
Councillor J. Baker Chamber of Commerce Museum Board
Councilor 3. Earle DBIA brary Board
Councillor M. Kalivas Heritage Brockville Arts Centre
Mayor D. Henderson, Tourism
Ex-Officio

Page PUBLIC MEETING

AGENDA

tem

3-19 1. 2017-048-05

Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014,
Part Lot 15, Concession 2, Stewart Blvd., Brockville,
Owner: Brockmoor Development Corp. Ltd.

THAT Report 2017-048-05 be received as information and that a
report on this matter be prepared by Staff for consideration of the
Economic Development Planning Committee at a future meeting.

20-27 © 2. -2017-049-05
Proposed Amendments to the Official Plan
and Zoning By-law 050-2014, Part of Block 54,
Plan 67, City of Brockville,
Parkland Between Havelock Street
and Schofield Avenue and Strowger Boulevard,
Owner: City of Brockville
Applicant: Habitat for Humanity

THAT Report 2017-049-05 be received as information and that a
report on this matter be prepared by staff for consideration of the
Economic Development Planning Committee at a future meeting.

Page 2 of 148,

Economic Development and Planning Committee - Public Meeting
May 2, 2017

28-148 3. -2017-050-05
Proposed Amendment to the Official Plan
and Amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014,
Draft Secondary Plan for the Brockville
Employment Lands (Parkedale Avenue West,
Stewart Boulevard and Victoria Road), City of Brockville

THAT Report 2017-050-05 be received as information and that a
report on this matter be prepared by staff for consideration of the
Economic Development Planning Committee at a future meeting.

Page 3 of 148

25April2017
REPORT TO THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE - PUBLIC
MEETING ~ 2 MAY 2017

2017-48-05
PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO ZONING D. DICK
BY-LAW 050-2014, PART LOT 15, DIRECTOR OF PLANNING (Acting)
CONCESSION 2, STEWART BLVD., ANDREW MCGINNIS
CITY OF BROCKVILLE PLANNER Il
OWNER: BROCKMOOR DEVELOPMENT CORP. LTD.

APPLICANT: NOVATECH ENGINEERING
FILE: D14-020 (10.2014)

RECOMMENDATION

THAT Report 2017-048-05 be received as information and that a report on this matter
be prepared by Staff for consideration of the Economic Development Planning
Committee at a future meeting,

PURPOSE )

To provide information for purposes of conducting a Public Meeting under the Planning
‘Act respecting an Application for Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-
2014.

BACKGROUND

Novatech Engineering, represented by Ms. Danna See-Har and Mr. Adam Thompson,
‘Agent for Brookmoor Development Corporation Limited, Owner of lands described as
Part of Lot 15, Concession 2, City of Brockville, County of Leeds, has filed an
application for amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014. The lands
‘which are the subject of the application are located on the east side of Stewart Bivd., as
shown on Schedule “A” attached hereto.

Brookmoor Development Corporation Limited intends to sell the parcel north of 601
Stewart Blvd. (CFJR Radio Station), being approximately 1.86 hectares in size with
frontage on Stewart Blvd. of 143.5 m and an average depth of 163.4 m. The application
for an amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014 seeks to rezone this parcel from RU —
Rural Zone to C4 ~ Commercial Corridor Zone to facilitate the construction of an
Automobile Service Station, accessory car wash and convenience store, The
remainder of the lands are proposed to be left vacant for future development of uses
permitted in the C4 — Commercial Corridor Zone. A site plan of the proposed
development is attached to this report as Schedule “B” and Schedule “B-1”.


Page 4 of 148,
2017.048-05 Page 2
Public Meeting - Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-Law 0502014
Pan Lot 15, Cone. 2 City Of Brockuil
‘Owner Brockmoor Development Corp Lid.
Applicant: Novatech Engineering
File: D14-020;r0

ANALYSIS.
Zoning and Official Plan Information:

Official Plan Designation: Corridor Commercial Area (no change requested)

Existing Zoning: RU ~ Rural Zone
Proposed Zoning! (C4 —Highway Commercial Zone

To view the uses permitted within the C4 — Highway Commercial Zone, Table 6.1 of
Zoning By-law 050-2014 is attached as Schedule “C” for reference.

istics:
Total Area 1.86 hectares

Frontage: 143.5 m on Stewart Blvd.
Average Depth: 163.4m

‘The subject land is currently vacant with some areas of the site below the grade level of
Stewart Blvd. Vegetative cover is mostly scrub brush with an irregular band of trees
along a portion the eastern side (rear) ofthe lot

Photos of the subject property are attached as Schedule “D”

‘Surrounding Land Use:

North: Lands to the north are zoned RU-7 - Rural Special Exception
Zone and are occupied by Brockville Landscape Depot.
South: Lands located directly south are zoned RU ~ Rural Zone and

‘occupied by the CFJR Radio Station. Further south and adjacent
the radio station, the lands are zoned C2 ~ Local Commercial
Zone and occupied by the Butcher Shop.

East: Lands to the east are occupied by a residential neighbourhood
Comprised of semi-detached dwellings and townhouse dwellings
zoned R4 - General Residential Zone (Wilmont Young Place) and
low-rise apartment buildings (4 storey) zoned R5 — Multiple
Residential Zone (Cartier Court).

West: Lands to the west and across Stewart Boulevard are zoned H1-C4
= Highway Commercial Zone and are presently vacant.

Comments Received are summarized below:

1. Steve Allen, Supervisor of Engineering, Environmental Services Department:
‘+ Not opposed to the application.


Page 5 of 148,
2017.040-05 Pagos
Public Meeting - Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-Law 050.2014
Pan Lot 15, Cone. 2, City Of Brocka
Gumer: Grockmoor Development Corp Ltd
oplcant. Novatech Engineering
File! D14-020pn 20

2. Conal Cosgrove, Director of Operations, Operations Department
+ No comments with respect to the application.

3. Brent Caskenette, CBO, Planning Department — Building Services Division:
‘+ No comments or concems with tis application or proposal.

4. Greg Healy, Chief Fire Prevention Officer, Brockville Fire Department:
+ No concerns at this time.

5. Scott Fraser, Chief, Brockville Police Service
‘+ Proximity to residential. Is the carwash going to be operational 24/77
+ Possible traffic issues.

6. Sandra MacDonald, City Clerk
‘© Noconcem

7. Michael Dakin, Resource Planner, Cataraqui Region Conservation Authority
* No concern with the proposed zoning amendment.
+ CRCA will conduct a full review at time of Site Plan Control Submission.

8. Allison Sadler, Municipal Planning Advisor, Enbridge Gas Distribution
‘+ No objection to the proposed application.

9. Peggy Deslauriers, Delivery Planning, Canada Post
«No comments on the re-zoning,

10. Pierre Tetrault, French Public School Board
+ No objection and no comments.

10. Karolyn Bois, French Catholic School Board
‘+ No objection and no comments.

11. Concerned Neighbours (Letter attached as Sche
'* Object to zoning change:
‘©. Existing water course
© Fuel Storage
Risk outweighs the commercial benefit
‘© Business Risk, arear will become overserved by this type of use,
© Barrier/Esthetics
Lighting will be easily seen and disturbing to residents
©. Should approval be granted, comments need to be included in the
Site Plan Control Agreement,
© Strong consideration on the Business Risk/Need, high potential for
failure

to this report)

.


Page 6 of 148
2017.048-05, Pages
Public Mecting - Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-Law 050.2014
Part Lat 15, Cone. 2, City Of Brocka.
‘Owner: Brockmoor Development Corp. Li.
icant. Novatech Engineering
Fle: B44-020qs0an

Potential Issues for Discussion:

Appropriateness of the requested zoning

‘Appropriateness of the proposed use(s) (Service Station, C-Store and Car Wash)
Traffic impacts.

Future development issues, if any.

Compatibilty of proposed uses with existing adjacent residential uses.

peers

POLICY IMPLICATIONS

‘The contents ofthis report are provided for information purposes for the Public Meeting.
Following the Public Meeting, Planning Department Staff will prepare a report which will
include review and consideration of policies that are relevant to the requested
amendment.

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS

‘A.complete application for amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 has
been received, including all applicable fees. Any additional costs relating to the
rezoning of the lands is the responsibilty of the applicant.

‘CONCLUSION

‘A Report on this matter, including a detailed analysis of the proposed amendment,
review and consideration of the issues raised at the Public Meeting and a
recommendation from Planning Staff, will be prepared for consideration of the Economic
Development Planning Committee at a future meeting.

‘A. McGinnis, MCIP, RPP, DiplW.M.
Director of Planning (Acting), and Planner Il
Director of Corporate Services

B. Casselman
City Manager

Page 7 of 148

SCHEDULE “A” TO REPORT 2017-048-05


3” TO REPORT 2017-048-05


a eo
ita wise SoM, (486 AON)

ae | ee |
tee er

As ans Le

i

even 50 () —

ed on fe

STEWART BOULEVARD= = >

$0°870-2102 LHOd3y OL «1-8, JINGZHOS

pL 10.6 abe

Page 10 of 148

SCHEDULE “C” TO REPORT 2017-048-05 wo, 050.2014

6.0 COMMERCIAL AND MIXED
USE ZONES

6.1 PERMITTED USES
Unies otherwise permitted in this By-law, no person shall, within any
‘Commercial or Mixed Use Zone, use any land or erect or cause to be erected
‘or used, any building or structure, except in accordance with the uses.
permited in Table 6.4,

‘Table 6.1 — Permitted Uses in Commercial and Mixed Use
Zones

“The following uses are permitted in the zones corresponding to the
Columns where an "x" is identified. Where an “Ei identifed, only
legally existing uses shall be permitted.

a
EE <<
=o
[a
En <<

Ea: -

ere

"


Page 11 of 148

City of Brockville Comprehensive Zoning By-law No. 050-2014

Table 6.1 ~ Permitted Uses in Commercial and Mixed Use
Zones

‘The folowing uses are permited inthe zones corresponding tothe
‘columns where an "x" is identified. Where an “Eis identifed, only
legally existing uses shal be permite.

Ee | ani

x

ao At ate des
Ea - abet
Ezz - ia a
Ea « FH ad
[reson aU
.

a

Eee. « Br i ey
Eom. - ats a)
Eee: « AS Clea
Bese] A
ea


Page 12 of 148

City of Brockville Comprehensive Zoning By-law No, 050-2014

‘Table 6.1 ~ Permitted Uses in Commercial and Mixed Use
Zones

8 are permitted in the zones corresponding to the
columns where an "X" i identified. Where an"E” i identified, only
legally existing uses shal be permitted,

[mare aE

Meebo Pra 5x xy] focal

x


Page 13 of 148

City of Brockville Comprehensive Zoning By-law No, 050-2014

Table 6.1 ~ Permitted Uses in Commercial and Mixed Use
Zones

‘The folowing uses are permite inthe zones corresponding tothe
‘columns where an °X" i identified. Where an “Ei identifed, only
legally existing uses shal be permited

x9)

| =

z


Page 14 of 148

City of Brockville Comprehensive Zoning By-law No. 050-2014

‘Table 6.1 ~ Permitted Uses in Commercial and Mixed Use
Zones

‘The following uses are permitted in the zones corresponding to the
columns where an "X" i identified. Where an“E” is identified, only
legally existing uses shall be permitied.

2 2 ° =
2 2


City of Brockville Comprehensive Zoning By-law No, 050-2014

Table 6.1 ~ Permitted Uses in Commercial and Mixed Use
Zones

“The folowing uses are permitted in the zones corresponding to the
Columns where an "x" is identified. Where an“E” is identified, only
legally existing uses shall be permite.

6

Page 15 of 148


Page 16 of 148

City of Brockville Comprehensive Zoning By-law No, 050-2014

Ported Uses in Commercial and Mixed Use
Zones

‘The folowing uses are permitted in the zones corresponding othe
columns where an "X" i identified. Where an “Es identified, only
legally existing uses shall be permitted.

(1) This use is subject to addtional provisions under the General
Provisions (Section 3.0)

(@) Total commercial space on any lot in the C2 and C3 Zones is ited
to 8 gross leasable area of not more than 7,500.0 m®

(@) Notwithstanding any other provision of this By-law, the C6 Zone shall,

‘be subject to the following special provisions:

2) The maximum gross leasable area of individual retail uses
‘denoted shall be tinted 1 7,700.0 m?.

b) The maximum cumulative gross leasable area of all etall uses
denoted shall be as flows:

67


Page 17 of 148

SCHEDULE “D” TO REPORT 2017-048-05


Page 18 of 148

SCHEDULE “E” TO REPORT 2017-048-05

Planning Department
Cty of Brockville

1 Kingst. West
Brockvile ON

KV TAS

Hand Delivered

Regarding Proposed Amendment to By-Law 050-2014

We are owners of adjacent proper Jour comments below can
’be considered as our objection tothe change In zing belng proposed to accommodate an auto service
station, car wash and convenience store. We have several concerns noted here:

ENVIRONMENTAL
‘This the most Important of cur concerns. The land being rezoned is, as we understand i, reclalmed
swamp |r, cs, there isa water run off
leading to the property under zoning change consideration, We want to make certaln there sno Barrer
‘this water runoff. Heay rains and winter snow melt fellow a pattern that has been in place we
belleve since the mid 1990's when the homes were bul
Beyond that, we are concemad there wil be automobile ful stored underground on the site. We
understand there are regulation regarding underground storage of such hazardous materials.
Regardless, any spill, leaks or fres would be very dangerou
Remediation of any such events known to be increible costly and time consuming. Therefore, we
believe the risk outweighs any commercial beneft.

BUSINESS RISK
‘The proposal Indletes auto service, car wash and convenience store. We are concerned the area will
‘become overserved by this type of business in this location. There is auto service and convenlence store
1 block away atthe corner of Stewart Bivd and Laurer Ave. Theres fuel sales 1 block north at Stewart
‘Bd and Victoria Road. There ae no less than 3 service stations with car wash facies at Stewart Bld
and Parkedale Ave corners adjacent to highway 401. tt appears to us the area is quite wel served by
‘existing faclities In much more prominent locations. The concern here Is the white elephant property
‘that wll be left should ths enterprise fal. Resale ofthese types of properties Is extremely ficult. One
‘only need look atthe same Stewart/Parkdale corner and vacant former gas bar location as evidence.
‘That goes beyond the Environmental issue noted above a a business fallure wil create protective
‘dernands on the underground assets that may be dificult to secure.

BARRIEAVESTHETICS
‘The property In question appears tobe ofsufilent sz to provide appropriate visibity barriers from
traffic and lighting, We antkcpate thls operation could be open 24/7. While there may be peaks of
activity, there wil lv be highly placed lighting that could be easily seen from and bright enough
during darkness hours to be disturbing.


Page 19 of 148

CONCLUSION

While we stand by our objection tothe change on what we are submitting here, we do wish to add a
final point. Should ths change go ahead and thls business be established, we very stronely believe the
Cy of Brockville needs to Include our concerns in any Site Plan Agreement withthe owners Careful
adherence to all hazardous materials we believe Is a mandatory requlrement already automatic
‘Creating a Barer of significant proportion ta pratect neighbours from view, nolse, lighting Is also an
Important separation necessary between a highly visble commerclal enterprise and a qulet residential
neighbourhood. We also believe the review process carefully consider the Business Alsk/Need here,
‘Adding another tothe already extensive list along the Stewatt Blvd appears tous to be an unnecessary
‘adaition with high potentia for faiture.

fot Mebet

Llygtitt Hc fiaa

Page 20 of 148

20April2017
REPORT TO THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE - PUBLIC
MEETING ~ 2 MAY 2017

2017-049-05
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE D. pick
OFFICIAL PLAN AND ZONING BY-LAW DIRECTOR OF PLANNING (Acting)
050-2014, PART OF BLOCK 54, PLAN 67, ANDREW MCGINNIS .
CITY OF BROCKVILLE, PARKLAND PLANNER I

BETWEEN HAVELOCK STREET, SCHOFIELD
AVENUE AND STROWGER BOULEVARD.
OWNER: CITY OF BROCKVILLE
APPLICANT: HABITAT FOR HUMANITY

AGENT: "DAVE ANNABLE, ANNABLE DESIGNS
FILES: 109-06 AND D14-021 os0.2014)
RECOMMENDATION

THAT Report 2017-049-05 be received as information and that a report on this matter
bbe prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic Development Planning
Commitee at a future meeting,

PURPOSE

To provide information for purposes of conducting a Public Meeting under the Planning
‘Act respecting Application for Amendment to the City of Brockville Official Pian and
‘Application for Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014.

BACKGROUND

On 25 August 2015, Council for the City of Brockville approved the donation of Part of
Block 54, Plan 67," City of Brockville, County of Leeds, to Habitat for Humanity in
‘support oftheir on-going home ownership program

27 March 2017, Mr. David Annable, agent for Habitat for Humanity and authorized
agent for the City of Brockville, fled applications for amendment to City of Brockville
Official Plan and to the City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014, which, if approved,
would permit the subject lands to be used for two (2) separate single detached
dwellings. The lands which are the subject of the application are located on the north
side of Havelock Street, east side of Strowger Boulevard and south of Schofield
‘Avenue, as shown on Schedule “A” attached hereto. A proposed site plan of the |
property is also shown on Schedule “B”. |

‘The subject lands are currently vacant and being utilized vacant City parkland,

Page 21 of 148
2017.090-08 Page 2
Public Meoting Proposed Amendments to Offical lan and Zoning By-Law 050-2014
Part of Block 84, Pan 67
Ouner: Cty of Brockvie
‘Appliant: Habitat for Humanity
‘Agent. Dave Annable, Annable Designs
Files! Bo808and O14-0z%eane

ANALYSIS
Zoning and Offi! Pian ifomat
Oficial Plan Designaton: Parks and Open Space Area ebjeto
Community BtkPoiee
Proposed OP Amendment’ Netbouteod ea
Existing Zoning (08- Open space Zone
Proposed Zoning 3 ~ Goneral Resdntal Special Exception Zone
parm severance ofthe property and concton ot
fo 2) single deached estontal cvelnge: wih
Tedstone tothe exer sie yrdrequrements
Sie Charattistis(e00 Schedule “B" tached tthe repo |
Total Area (pre-severance): 1,170.0 m? .
Frontage - Havelock tab
Frontage — Schofield Ave: 24.0m
Depth Stowger Bia Bam
Total Area Lot A (post-severance): 608.1 m?
Frontage Schou Ave seb
Depth - Strowger Blvd: 26.2m
Total Area Lot B (post-severance): 561.8 m*
Frontage Havelock St poem
DopthSvewger hs 33m

Due to the shape of the proposed lots, the interior side yard (eastern property line)
being angled and the dwelling design selected, the applicants have requested a
reduction the minimum exterior side yard setback requirement from 4.5 metres to 4.0
metres in order to mirror the two dwellings. Due to the angled propery line (east), the
frontage for proposed Lot “B" (20.5 m) is substantially smaller than Lot “A” (24.0 m),
which, without a small reduction to the exterior side yard, ample area for meeting the
parking requirements may become an issue. :

The subject lands are currently occupied by a community park. Photos of the subject,
property are attached as Schedule “C”.

Noa Tands to the north are zoned OS — Open Spaces and
{across Schofield Ave.) | occupied by a community park.


Page 22 of 148

2017.40.08 Pages
Public Meeting - Proposed Amendments to Official Plan and Zoning By-Law 050-2014

arto Block 84, Pan 67

Gamer: Clty of Brockvite

‘Applicant: Habitat for Humanity

‘Agent: Dave Annable, Annable Designs

Files: 08.08 and O14-02%aeana

‘Sout ands tothe south are zoned OS ~ Open Space and occupied by

(across Havelock St) tennis courts and a community park ~ Schofield Park.

East: ‘Lands to the east are zoned R3 - General Residential Zone and
‘occupied by single detached dwellings. _

West Lands to the west are zoned E2-3 General Employment Special
Exception Zone and occupied by multiple employment uses at
100 Strowger Boulevard, the APEX Building

Comments Received are summarized below:

1. Sandra MacDonald, City Clerk, Clerks Office
‘+ No concems regarding the proposed amendments.

2. Brent Caskenette, CBO, Building Services Division, Planning Department:
‘+ Nocomments or concems regarding the noted amendments.

3. Steve Allen, Supervisor of Engineering, Environmental Services Department:
‘+ Not opposed to the application.
‘+ These are not serviced lots, servicing will have to be completed prior to
construction to insure service gradients are met,

4, Greg Healy, Chief Fire Prevention Officer, Fire Department:
‘No concerns at this time,

5. Conal Cosgrove, Director of Operations, Operations Department
‘+ No comments with respect to this application.

6. Doug Hone, Brockville Mobile Accessibilty Advisory Committee
‘+ No objections to this residential development,

7. Peggy Desiauriers, Delivery Planner, Canada Post
‘+ No comments for the development of the 2 lots.

8, Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Housing, Morgan Alger — Planner:
‘+ Nocomments.

Potential Issues for Discussion

Appropriateness of the requested Official Plan Amendment.
Appropriateness of the requested Zoning By-law Amendment.

Requested reduction to the exterior side yard requirement for both lots
Appropriateness of use of unimproved parkland for single detached
‘dwellings.

Availabilty of municipal services.


Page 23 of 148

Page
and Zoning By-Law 080-2014

Owner: Clty of Brockvile

Applicant: Habitat for Humanity

‘Agent: Dave Annable, Annable Designs
Files! 0806 and D1402teana

POLICY IMPLICATIONS.

The contents of this report are provided for information purposes for the Public Meeting.
Following the Public Meeting, Planning Department Staff will prepare a report which wil
include review and consideration of policies that are relevant to the requested
amendments,

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS

‘A complete application for Amendment to City of Brockville Official Plan and
Amendment to the City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 has been received,
including all applicable fees. Any additional costs relating to the re-designation,
rezoning, future severance and subsequent development of the lands is the
responsibilty of the applicant,

‘CONCLUSION
‘A Report on this matter, including a detailed analysis of the proposed amendments,
review and consideration of the issues raised at the Public Meeting and a

recommendation from Planning Staff, will be prepared for consideration of the Economic
Development Planning Committee at a future meeting

Ss
David Dick, CPA, CA Ridrew McGinnis, MCIP, RPP, Dip MM.
Director of Corporate Services and Planner Il

Director of Planning (Acting)

B. Casselman
City Manager


Page 24 of 148

SCHEDULE “A” TO REPORT 2017-049-05


[== SCHEDULE “B” | ai 2017-049-05 a


Page 26 of 148

SCHEDULE “C” TO REPORT 2017-049-05


Page 27 of 148


Page 28 of 148

26 April 2017
REPORT TO THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE - PUBLIC
MEETING ~ 2 MAY 2017

2017-050-05

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE D. DICK
OFFICIAL PLAN AND AMENDMENTS TO DIRECTOR OF PLANNING (Acting)
ZONING BY-LAW 050-2014 J. FAURSCHOU
DRAFT SECONDARY PLAN PLANNER |

FOR THE BROCKVILLE EMPLOYMENT LANDS

(HIGHWAY 401, STEWART BOULEVARD AND VICTORIA ROAD)
CITY OF BROCKVILLE

FILES: D09-07 AND D14-022%080 2016)

RECOMMENDATION

THAT Report 2017-050-05 be received as information and that a report on this matter
be prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic Development Planning
Committee at a future meeting.

PURPOSE

To provide information for purposes of conducting a Public Meeting under the Planning
‘Act respecting the Draft Secondary Plan and proposed Amendments to the City of
Brockville Official Plan and proposed Amendments to the City of Brockville Zoning By-
law 050-2014 to implement the findings of the Employment Lands Secondary Pian

BACKGROUND

The City of Brockville retained MMM Group Limited (MMM) in June 2015 to implement
the recommendations of the City's Employment Lands Review (ELR). The ELR
‘identified an urgent need for employment lands, in particular large parcels, in Brockville
and recommended that a Secondary Plan be prepared to determine the lands within the
designated Urban Reserve Area in the City’s northwest quadrant to provide additional
‘employment land supply. These lands are currently located outside of the City’s Urban
Boundary and to bring them into the City's Urban Boundary, a Comprehensive Review
is required in accordance with the policies of the Official Pian

MMM has prepared the Secondary Plan in draft. The implementation of the Secondary
Plan, once finalized, is done through amendments to the Official Plan and to the Zoning
By-law. Accordingly, draft Amendments to Official Plan and draft Amendments to
Zoning By-law 050-2014 have also been prepared by MMM Group.

‘All of the documents require review by City Council, which is the approval authority for
Official Plan and Zoning By-law Amendments. The process of public consultation in
‘accordance with the Planning Act has been commenced and the Public Meeting

Page 29 of 148
Page 2

Guinor. Cy of Brockile
Foe 609-07 and DY¢ 22a.

‘scheduled for 02 May 2017 is one step in the process. Given the complexity of the
process, a Public Open House was held on 05 April 2017 to provide an introduction and
‘opportunity for the Public to be briefed on the process and the draft documents and to
provide additional lead time to review documentation and to consider comments for
‘submission at the 02 May 2017 Public Meeting.

ANALYSIS

The subject lands are those lands referred to as “Brockville Employment Lands’, being
an irregular shaped area lying north of the 401 corridor, west of Stewart Boulevard, east
of the City/Township of Elizabethtown-Kitley boundary and south of Victoria Road with
frontage on Victoria Road, Laurier Boulevard, Chelsea Street and Parkedale Avenue
land are a8 shown on Schedule “A” to this Report. The subject lands are currently
vacant with the exception of development associated with the Brockville Highland Golf
Club.

Zoning and Official Plan Information: )
Official Plan Designation crepes)
The purpose of the proposed Amendments to the Official Plan for the City of

Brockville is to amend Section 4.7 and Schedules “1", “3” and "6", inclusive, to !
implement the Employment Lands Secondary Plan.

Proposed Zoning (Proposes:

‘The purpose of the proposed Amendments to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050- .
2014, is to add a new E2-5 - General Employment Special Exception Zone and

rezone various lands to RU - Rural Zone and E.P. - Environmental Protection Zone

to implement the policies of the proposed Official Plan Amendment with respect to

the Brockville Employment Lands Secondary Plan,

Amendments to the Official Plan for the City of Brockville and the draft proposed
‘Amendments to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014, have been previously
presented, in whole, to Council. In addition, the documents have been made available
‘on the City website in two locations, the "News" section and a section entitled "New
Employment Area Review’, in the Planning Department and upon request through the
Planning Department.

:
The drat Secondary Plan, incuting al supporting stuses, the craft proposed |


Page 20 of 148
Pages

2017.050-05,

Accordingly, the primary documents, without the supporting studies indicated as
‘Appendices to the Secondary Plan, have been appended to this report:

+ City of Brockville Employment Land Secondary Plan Report, December
2016/Draft,altached as Schedule “B” to this Report;

‘+ Amendment No. XXXX-XX to the Official Plan for the City of Brockvlle/Draft,
attached as Schedule “C” to this Report; and

© Bylaw 20XX-XXX to Amend Comprehensive Zoning By-law 050-2014/Draft,
attached as Schedule “D” to this Report

Site Characteristics

(Lands Within the irregular shaped area lying north of the 401 corridor, west of Stewart
Boulevard, south of Victoria Road and east of the City/Township of Elizabethtown-Kitiey
boundary)

Frontage - Vietoria Road 104m
Frontage - Chelsea Street: 35m
Frontage - Parkedale Avenue ona sie) 879m
Frontage - Patkedale Avenue (soun sve) 4,153 m

‘Shape = lireguiar:
‘Surrounding Land Use:

North Lands to the north are zoned RU-Rural Zone and are |
(Victoria Road) ‘occupied by a range of residential dwellings fronting Vietoria |
I Road

West Lands to the west are located within the Township of
(Township of Elizabethtown-Kiley and are zoned RU-Rural Zone and
Eilzabethtown-Kitley) __| predominantly vacant.

Eat: ‘Lands to the east, fronting on Stewart Boulevard, Parkedale

‘Avenue and a private road, are zoned C4-Highway Commercial
Zone, C3-General Commercial Arterial Zone and |t-nstitutional
Zone and are occupied variously by a range of commercial uses,
‘older residential dwellings and a church, |
South ‘Lands to the South are identified by the 401 corridor.

The south side of the 401 corridor is zoned OS-Open Space Zone
to the west and E2-General Employment Zone to the east
‘Note: For clarification purposes, North is considered to be towards Victoria Road, South
towards the 401 corridor, East towards Stewart Boulevard and West towards the
City/Township of Elzabethtown-Kitiey boundary.


Page 31 of 148

Pages
2017.50.05

Employment Lands Review

Draft Secondary Plan,

Offa Pan Armondments and

Zoning By-law Amendments

Owner: Cty of Brockville

Files: D09-07 and D1422qmn0

Depart 1d Agency Comments received to-d: April 2017) are summarized
below and may be attached in their entirety as Schedule “E-1”

1. Greg Healy, Chief Fire Prevention Officer, Fire Department, 10 April 2017:

“After reviewing the proposal for the above-note project, please be advised
that this department has no concems at this time.”

2. Conal Cosgrove, Director of Operations, Operations Department:

“The Operations Department supports the recommendations contained within
the Traffic Impact Study as well as the Technical Memorandum regarding the
Stewart Boulevard/Highway 401 Interchange.”

3. Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Housing, Morgan Alger/Karen Currie ~ Planner,
20 April 2017:

“the Ministry would like to circulate the draft amendment to some of our
partner ministries. We anticipate being able fo provide comments by the end
of June.”

4. Enbridge Pipelines Inc., Chris Pincombe, C.E.T., Lands and ROW Administrator -
Crossings, Eastern Region. See attached e-mail dated 20 April 2017:

“Enbridge Pipeline inc. has reviewed the subject application and does not
have any facilities within the area and has no concerns with the
amendment.”

5. Conseil Des Ecoles Catholiques De Centre Est, Karolyn Bois, Planification en
imobilsations, See attached letter dated 12 April 2017

‘Le Consie! des Ecoles catholiquots du Centre-Est (CECCE) a revu la
‘demnde susmentionee et ne s'y oppose pas.

Esperant que ces renseignements vous seront utlltes, jo vous prie d'agreer,
‘Monsiur, expression de mes sentiments distingues.” Conseil Des Ecoles
Catholiques De Centre Est, Karolyn Bois, Planification en imobilisations, 12
April 2017:

Translation - "The Catholic schoo! council of centre east review the question
‘mentioned below and do not oppose it

With hope that the information is useful to you, I'm asking you fo agree,
Monsieur, with the feelings that I've expressed.”

2017.050.05
Emplayment Lands Review
Draft Secondary Plan

Official lan Amendments and
Zoning By-law Amendmonts,
Sune

rockvile

iyo

Figg: 009.07 nd D14 022209

Page 32 of 148
Pages

6. Ministry of Transportation, Stephen Kapusta, MCIP, RPP, Corridor Management

8

Planner. See attached letter dated 20 April 2017.

“Overall, we do not have much in the way of immediate concems with the
proposed designation of these employment lands. We would however lke (0
be involved in the Secondary Plan process. I am curious to know the

boundaries of that Secondary Plan.

In general, there are some concems with the Stewart Boulevard interchange
if there is to be more traffic added to it in the future, But we can handle that in

time.”

7. Cataraqui Region Conservation Authority, Michael Dakin, Resource Planner.

See attached letter dated 21 April 2017.

BMAAC, Doug Hone. 20 April 2017:

“BMAAC has no issue with this until such time as development details begin

to emerge in the form of construction projects.”

Public Comments received to-date (26 April 2017) since the Public Open House held on

Ai

il 2017. iarized below. Public comments have been attached in

entirety as Schedule “E-2”

1.

Rani Tolton See attachments:
20 April 2017 (date stamped)
24 April 2017

Neal Tolton ~ See attachment
06 April 2017 (date stamped)

Patti Whyte - See attachments:
10 April 2017, notification requirements dated 13 April 2013,
19 April 2017

Robert Millar See attachment:
21 April 2017

‘Ann Clapperton ~ See attachment:
21 April 2017

Mrs. R. Mitchell - See attachment
25 April 2017

Page 23 of 148
Pag

2017-05005
Employment Lands Review
Draft Secondary Plan,

Offica lan Amendments and
Zoning Bylaw Amendments,
Owner: City of Brockvle

Files: B08-07 and DI 022.009

7. Garth McGill ~ See attachments.
10 April 2017 (2)
24 Apiil 2017 (2)

8. Citizen for Progress Without Hardship (CPH) — See attachment.
09 September 2015 - resubmission
21 April 2017 ~ Minutes of Open House 05 April 2017 — recorded by Ann
Clapperton, Secretary-CPH, and submitted by Ann Clapperton on behalf of CPH.

Potential Issues for Discussion
1 Appropriateness ofthe requested Official Plan Amendments.
2. Appropriateness of the requested Zoning by-law Amendments,
3. Appropriateness ofthe proposed uses forthe subject lands.
4, Potential traffic impact and routing

5. Neighbourhood concems ~ Summarized as follows. See attached comments for
details:

Mitigation of impacts;
Residual Residences;

Stewart Boulevard Widening;

Traffic Study:

Studies Regarding Impact of Transport Traffic;

Public Safety;

Golden Winged Warbler and habitat Designation Status;
Criteria for Selecting Industry/Businesses for Brockville;
Using/Promoting Available Serviced land; -

Evidence for Transportation, Warehousing and Wholesale Trade;
Available Land;

Phase Development Rationale;

Hazards;

Transparency;

Employment Lands Review;

Projection of Data; -

Mapping Orientation.


Page 24 of 148
Page 7

Zoning Bylaw Amendments
‘Owner. City of Brockvite
File: 008-07 and D1 022henan9

6. CPH (Citizens for progress without Hardship) Questions:

Environment, Stormwater Management, Threatened or Endangered Species,
Traffic (Parkedale/Stewart/401 Interchange), Noise Attenuation, Trans Northem
Pipelines, Landfill Sire, Archaeology, Servicing (Water/Sewer/Gas/Hydro),
Financial Impacts, Negative Impacts on Quality of Life, Unknown
‘Threats/impacts/Use of Lands/Access, Transparency/Collaboration, Project
Financial Viability.

POLICY IMPLICATIONS

The contents of this report are provided for information purposes for the Public Meeting.
Following the Public Meeting, Planning Department Staff will prepare a report which will
include review and consideration of policies that are relevant to the requested
amendments,

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS

All costs associated with completion, integration and implementation of the Secondary
Plan, Official Plan Amendments, Zoning By-law amendments, and supporting
documents are the responsibilty of the City of Brockville

CONCLUSION

‘A Report on this matter, including a detailed analysis of the proposed amendments,
review and consideration of the issues raised at the Public Meeting and a
recommendation from Planning Staff, will be prepared for consideration of the Economic
Development Planning Committee at a future meeting,

David Dick, CPA, CA” J. Faurschou, MCIP, RPP
Director of Corporate Services and Planner |

{

led
\z

'B Casselman
City Manager

Page 35 of 148
‘Schedule “A” to Report 2017-050-05

LANDS SUBJECT TO PROPOSED OFFICIAL PLAN AMENDMENT, ZONING BY-LAW
AMENDMENT AND NEW SECONDARY PLAN ARE SHOWN ABOVE ~ OUTLINED IN
RED.

FILENUMBERS: OFFICIAL PLAN - D09-07
ZONING BY-LAW - D14-22


Page 36 of 148

Schedule “B” to Report 2017-050-05

BROCKVILLE

‘GiY OF THE 1000 ISLANDS

CITY OF BROCKVILLE
EMPLOYMENT LANDS
SECONDARY PLAN REPORT

December 2016 | Draft
1415025-001

BWSP | ANN snscrour

Page 37 of 148

BeWSP | ANN smncrovr

ant Grup iit
100 Comma Ve re West
‘Thr ON Canad TORT

19088821100] £905.82.0055

semen on

December 8, 2016
Flo No, 14 15025.001

Ms. Maureen Pascoe Merkley, MCIP, RPP
Director of Planning

Gay of Brockile

1 King Steet West. P.O. Box 5000
Brockvile, ON KEV 7A5,

RE: City of Brockville Secondary Plan Report

ear Ms, Pascoe Merkley,

MMM Group Liitd is pleased to submit this Dra Secondary Plan Report forthe City review. We have
‘Prepared this eport in accordance with the workplan prowded to you in ou later dated June "8, 2018.

We are happy to discuss the details, conclusions and implications ofthis Secondary Plan Report at atime
thats convenient for You. Please fee tree to cal me to discuss.

Yours ry,

[Mitt Group Limited

Chris Tyrrel, MCIP, RPP.
‘atonal Vice Present
Planning, Landscape Architecture & Urban Design


Page 38 of 148

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

‘An Employment Lands Reviw (ELR), conducted in June 205 by MIM Group Limited (MMM) forthe
Cy of Brockvile,ientfied an urgent need fractional employment land supply, special, supply
that can accommodate employment uses on large parcels. The ELR identified certain lands within the
Citys northwest quadrant, designated as Urban Reserve Area in the Oficial Plan, as the last remaining
<evelopabie area inthe Cty that can support an employment area to accommodate arge-ot employment
uses (Exhibit below). Asa result the ELR recommended that a Secondary Plan be prepared to
‘determine which lands within the northwest quadrant would be appropriate to accommodate lrge-ot
‘employment uses. However, the potential suppl identified for anew employment areal curently
‘utsido of the Citys Urban Boundary and, as a result, a detated Secondary Plan must be prepare that
‘meets the Ofcial Plan's Comprehensive Review requirements

exit

ty Area/Urban Reserve Area on City’s Offical Pan Schedule

‘The purpose of his Report sto present the planning analysis an opinion to support the development of
‘8 Secondary Plan forthe study area, and to satsty the requirements for @ Comprehensive Review.

“This report reviows the existing condions within the study area, and provides a summary ofthe planning
and policy context in the Cy of Brockvile. Supporting studies intended to facate the Secondary Plan

{for the study area ae then summarized. To ensure thatthe supprting studies were adequately scoped, a
preliminary analysis was undertaken to determine which lands could be suited for employment uses, The

ro tes ‘aye ect Secs Pan Rept Dace 201) |


Page 39 of 148

preliminary analysis of lands within the study area considered, but was not lire to, the following
‘onetions:

‘+ Proximity of exiting City services;
‘+ Proximity ofthe Ctys existing road network:

‘+ Amount of land identified in the Employment Land Review undertaken in Phase ofthis Project
‘Ina identification of constraints based on the Official Plan; and

‘+ Proximity of existing senstive land uses.

“The outcome ofthe analysis served to inform the supporting studies, and o refine the study area
‘boundary, Studies undertaken in suppor of the Secondary Pian included the folowing:

‘+ Enviconmental Impact Statement (18)
‘+ Financial mpact Assessment

‘+ Water, Wastewater & Stormwater Analysis
+ Tratfe impact Assessment

‘+ Slage 2 Archaeological Assessment

+ Land Use within 500M of Landi Site

“The resuts ofthe supporting studies concluded the following

“+ Based onthe raul

‘ofthe EIS, pproximatoly 86 hectares of land is avaiable that gonerally
_2v0ids any significant environmental features that need to be conserved, excluding two
intermitent steams and a small umber of buterut trees,

‘+The ands ouside of the 36 hectares, approximately around the conte of he scoped study area,
hhave been identified as conservation lands due to the existence ofimpocant envicnmenta
features. The sigiicance of having these identified as conservation lands is that they wil be
Protected forthe long trm and added tothe y's Natural Hertage System, which allows forthe
‘connection of wife corridors and protection of wetlands and woodlands

+The Financial Impact Assessment concluded that due othe proximay of inastuctre, a6
identifed previously, the amount of revenue that may be generated by bringing new employment
‘ses online far outweighs the upon costs that would be incurred by extending municipal water
and sewer services and a roadway tothe proposed Employment Area.

‘+ Municipal servicing i available adjacent tothe scoped study area. Analyzes ofthe existing water,
wastewater, and stormwater systems indicate thal there is suficient capac to accommodate
employment uses fr the long term, without the need to upgrade the City's systems, To eneure

a hop Utes ‘ty chute Scena Pe Repel Decor 2010)


Page 40 of 148

{there are no impacts on he stormwater systems from a quality and quantity perspective, all
‘stormwater sto be managed one

‘+ Minimal upgrades are necessary to accommodate employment uses in the scoped study area
‘and the existing trsnsporation network wil be utiized. Access wil be provided from Stowat
‘Boulevard, which have the appropiate design configuration and avaiable capaci to
‘accommodate the addtional employment development

+ No archaeological resources were found within the scoped study area,

‘Employment uses within $00M ofthe closed lanl ite were determined to be appropriate,

‘The results ofthe supporting studios provided the direction to establish the Secondary Plan Area
boundary. Aland use concep, as shown in “Exhibit was then prepared to define how the lands within
the Secondary Plan Area may be considered for employment uses. The concept focuses on maximizing
the development potential for employment area uses, while minimizing the potential or land use confess
between existing and future uses.

ue eo nes yo recite Sco Pan Rep (Decne 2016)


Page 41 of 148

‘The Secondary Plan concopt identifies a gross ctl of approximately 76 ha for development through five
‘Phases, which may be revised based on demand and individual need.

+ Phase 1 is approximately 20 ha,
+ Phase 2s approximately 16 ha,

“+ Phase 3s approximately 35 ha.
‘+ Phase 4is approximately 24.7 ha,
‘+ Phase 8s approximately 12.5 ha,

‘Asa resut ofthe supporting studies and associated analyses, as well as the preparation ofthe detailed
‘Secondary Plan Report, the Comprehensive Review and Secondary Plan requirements denied in the
Cys Official Pian have been met

‘Toimplement the Secondary Plan, an amendment to the Cy’ Offa Plan and Zoning By-law wil be
‘equred. I approved, the amendments will continue o be implemented in conjunction with the balance of
the provisions of the Official Plan and Zoning By iw.

sa lop eas (hy of chat | Secondary Fan Roper (Deore 2016)


Page 42 of 148

‘TABLE OF CONTENTS,

4 INTRODUCTION & PURPOSE
2 AREA LOCATION & DESCRIPTION,
3 PLANNING CONTEXT.
34 Planning Act nnn ~
32 Provincial Policy Statement, 2014...
33 City of Brockville Official Plan
34 Clty of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014.
4 SUMMARY OF SUPPORTING STUDIES
44 Employment Land Review.
42 Environmental impact Statement.
43 Financial Impact Assessment
44 Water, Wastewater, & Stormwater Analyses
45 Traffic Impact AMAIYSIS cnn

46 Stage2 Archaeological Assessment.
47 Land Use Within 500M of Lanafil Site,

5 SECONDARY PLAN CONCEPT.
6 CONCLUSIONS...

‘APPENDICES
‘Appendix A~ Employment Area Lands Review

Appendix 8 ~ Enviconmental Impact Statement

‘Appendix © ~ Financial Impact Assessment

‘Appendix D1 ~Trafic impact Analysis.

‘Appendix D2 —Technical Memorandum Respecting Highway 401 and Stewart Blvd. Interchange
Appendix E- Stage 2 Archaeological Assessment

‘Appendix F -Land Use Within 500M of Landfil Sito

a ropes hy lchate | Seconda Pan Report (December 2016) ¥


Page 43 of 148

STANDARD LIMITATIONS:

‘This report was prepared by MMMM Group Limite (MMM) forthe City of Brockvite (City in accordance
with our work agreement. This report i based on information provided to MMM which has not been
Independent vere.

‘The disclosure of any information contained inthis report is the sole responsibilty ofthe Cty, The
‘material inthis report andalnformaton relating otis activity ceflect AMM judgment in Kot ofthe
Information avaliable to us a the tie of preparation of this reper. Any use which ahd party makes of
this report, or any reliance on or decisions to be made based ont, are the responsibilty of such thd
parties. MIM accepts no responsibity for damages, i any, suffered by atid paty asa esut
decisions made or actions based on this report.

|Mnin warrants that it performed services hereunder wth that degree of care, sil, and dligence normally
provided in the performance of such services in respect of projects of sar nature atthe ime and place
those services wore rendered. MIM disclaims all other warranties, representations or conditions, ener
express or imple, ncuding, without inition, warrants, representations, or conditions of
‘merchantablty or proftabilty,o fitness fora particular purpose,

‘This Standard Limitations statements considered part ofthis report.

a eo nos ‘ty recite Seca Pan Report Orcaer 208)


Page 44 of 148

1 INTRODUCTION & PURPOSE

‘The Cy of Brockville retained MIM Group Limited (MMM) in June 2016 to implement the
‘recommendations ofthe City’s Employment Lands Review (ELR). The ELRidentiied an ugent need for
‘employment lands, n particular trge parcels, in Brockile and recommended that a Secondary Plan be
Prepared to determine the lands within the designated Urban Reserve land in the City's northwest
‘quadrant (vereinafer refered to asthe “study area’ o rove atonal employment land supply.
‘These lands are curently outside ofthe Cys Urban Boundary and to bring them in, a Comprehensive
Review is required in accordance withthe policies ofthe Offcial Plan, This study area represents the last
‘remaining developable area in the City that can accommodate large-tcale employment area
evelopment

“The purpose of this Report isto presenta planning analysis and opinion to support the development ofa
‘Secondary Pian for certain ands within the study area and satis the Provincial and local requirements
{fora Comprehensive Review This Report outines the basis for establsing a Secondary Plan for
‘empoyment uses on certain lands within the study area inthe context of Provincial Policy and the Cy of
Brockvile's Official Pian and Zoning By aw. Furthermore, this Report provides contextual support for an
Official Pian and Zoning By-law Amendment to inplement the Secondary Plan

The process of preparing a Secondary Plan within the study area sates both Provincial policy and the
y's Offi Plan ast relates to @ Comprehensive Review. Specially, i provides the required narrative
‘and rationale to support a new employment area by examining and analyzing the surrounding existing
land uses, existing natural heritage features, infrastructure (water, wastewater, stormwater, and
transportation), and future growth and associated land need. Expansion of the Cys Urban Boundary ito
the study area wil be examined trough the lens of a Comprehensive Review: giving rise toa preferred
land use and subsequent concep.

ne eo utes ‘yt chat | Secon Pian Report (Deemer 2016)


Page 45 of 148

2 AREA LOCATION & DESCRIPTION

“The study area boundary generally coincident wih the boundaries ofthe City’s Urban Reserve Area
‘dented inthe Official Plan in the northwest quadrant. This area ie generally located not of Highway
401, just east of Stowart Boulevard to Kensington Parkway, south of the Cys nothern municipal
boundary, and east ofthe City’s westeen municipal boundary, as geen in Exhibit 1. The study area
features the fotowing

‘+ Victoa and Centennial Roads traverse east-west through the nethom part ofthe study area,
which provide rect aocess for a numberof rural residential properties

+ Parkedale Avenue traverses east-west through the southern pat of the study area, providing
‘access fora few rural residential properties, a golf course, and agjacent municipality, the
“Township of Elzabethtoun-Kiey,

+The City’s former waste disposal ste, ¢ bounded bythe study area's westem Boundary and
Perkedale Avenve tots south

‘+ Avariaty of smaltot residential parcels and vacant lands ranging from under 1 ha to over 40 ha:

+ Trans Northem Pipeline, which bisects the lands; and

+ Substantial vegetation (vees/seru)

Exhibit Study Aros


Examining the existing land uses located in proximity tothe

Page 46 of 148

study areas @ vital component in assessing

the potential effects ofthe proposal and to determine which lands shoul comprise the Secondary Plan
‘Area and accommodate employment uses, As Such, they can be summarized a flows:

8 mix of commeciaihighway commercial and resientat uses, fronting on Stewart Boulevard;
an existing mploymentarea/uses inthe Western Industrial Park, immediately south of Highway
40

‘a number of highway commercial uses in proximity tothe Stewart Boulevard and Highway 401
inerchange

‘estabiched residential uses along, an in proximity to, Kensington Parkway:
‘number of exiting rural residential properties Immediately north ofthe study area, along
Centennial Road; and

the Township of Elzabethtown-Kiley within the United Counties of Leeds and Grenvile, tothe
west ofthe City of Brockile boundary

‘The study area benefits from proximity and convenint access to Highway 401, 2 key provincial
transportation corridor that connects Brockville to much of the Province and to bore crossings inking
Easton Ontario with New York State and the eastern US, Certain lands within the study area alsa have
rect frovtage on Stewart Boulevard, Centennial Road, and Parkedale Avenue, which ae important
attra roads providing convenient access to surrounding municipalities and to Highway 401. The study
‘tea also has access to municipal water and sewer atthe eastern edge a the termination of Laurer
‘Boulevard, immesiately wost of Stewar Boulevard

a rep ras (hy ol chute Secon Pan Rpt December 2018) 3


Page 47 of 148

3 PLANNING CONTEXT

Land use planning in Cy of Brockvite fs guided by a number of Provincial and Municipal documents.
‘These documents include the Planing Ac, the Provincial Policy Statement, 2014 and the Brockile
(Official Plan and Zoning By-law. These documents, as they late to the study area, willbe examined
‘and discussed in the folowing subsections

3.4 Planning Act

‘The Planning Act provides the authori for establishing a land use planning framework in Ontario,
Section 2of he Actidentiies 18 mater of Provincial intrest that municipal councis “shall have regard
{o" when carrying out ther responsibilities under the Act of noe i the provision of adequate employment
‘opportunities. The Planing Act define “ress of employment” as designated land within an ofa plan
Intended to protect and support clusters of business and economic uses incuding manufacturing,
warehousing, office, retail associated with an employment uses and ancillary uses,

3.2. Provincial Policy Statement, 2014

‘The 2014 Provincial Policy Statement (PPS), issued under Section 3 of the Planing Ac, establishes
Provincial dection in regards to planning mates including bulsing strong heathy communities, the wise
Use and management of resources and protecting public heath and safety. Section 3 ofthe Act also
‘equrs that municipal planning decisions shall be consistent with the PPS. As detaid inthe ELR, the
PS requires municipalities to ensure that sufcient and, paticulal in appropriately serviced settlement
‘areas, ie made avaliable to meet projected needs. Other broad policy directions contained inthe PPS that

the Secondary Planning process wil ned to consider include

'+ Promoting efficient and cost-efectve development and growth patterns
‘+ Proving sucient land and infrastructure to accommodate anticipated growth;
‘+ Supporting an appropiate range of employment opportunites;

‘+ Minimizing land consumption and senicing costs;

+ Avoiding the creation of environmental and health and safety issues; and

‘+ Protecting natural features and resources forthe long-term.

Key sections of the PPS, relevant to the establishment of a Secondary Plan for Brockvle’s urban
reserve, relate to settlement areas, employment areas, and comprehensive review pois

3.24 Settlement Areas

“The PPS defines settlement. urban o ural areas within a municipality where developments
‘concentrated and a mx of land uses are provided. nthe Ciy of Brockvile Oficial Pan, the eattlement

a rp Lina ‘tye eit Seana Pan Rept (Oecarber 201) 4


Page 48 of 148

‘areas defined asthe urban area. The PPS fuer states that growth and development ar to be focused
within setlement areas, where opportunites for intensifeation and redevelopment should be
accommodated. Such growth is requied to be based on densies and a mix of land uses which eficenty
tse land and inrastructure, promote energy efficiency while minimizing negative Impacts to ar quality
and clmate change, suppor active transportation and transit (where is existing, planned or may be
veloped), and ave freight-supportve

Consideration of setement area expansions may only occur atthe time ofa comprehensive review and
need to demonstrate that sufient opportunities fr intensfcation and redevelopment are not avalable
within the existing settlement area and necessary or planned infrastructure and puble services can be
rovded in fancy viable manner and protect pubic heath and safety and the natural envionment
(Section 11:38).

3.2.2 Employment Areas

‘Section 1.3 of the PPS requires that planning authorities “promote economic development and
compettiveness by :

8) Providing fran appropiate mix and range of employment and instutonal ues to meet ong :
term needs:

») Proving opportune fora dered economic bas, ncuding maining @ range and choice
of autabe sites or employment ves which suppor a wide range of economic ates and
snclay Uses, and ak nto account the neodsofetng and ture businesses

€) Encouraging compact, mixed-use development that incorporates comatbe employment uses to
suppor vale and cesiiont communes: ans

4) Ensuring the necessary inrastucture is provided o support curentand projected neads* .
(Section 1.31) |

“These considerations hep fo ensure that municipaltias are well prepared to meet the demang for
‘employment areas throughout the planing horzon of he offical plan. Mos crtcally, employment areas
‘are tobe protected from absorption by other non-employment land uses, particularly inproximty to major
‘004s movement facies and corridors. Consideration ofthe conversion of ands within employment
‘1008 to othe and uses i therfore aso resticted trough a comprehensive review (Section 1.3.22). In
addon to land supply considerations, municipalities ar also required to ensure that necessary
infrastructure, or wilbe made, avalebe to support current and projected growth needs. iis note,
however, that employment areas can be protected for the long ter, beyond the 20-year planning
horizon, provided that lands are not designated beyond the planning horizon.

na rupees ty rch | Scunny Pan Rapa (Decnber 2016)


Page 49 of 148

3.2.3. Comprehensive Review

In regards to setlement rea expansions and the conversion of employment lands, the PPS defines @
comprehensive review as an offal plan review or amendment intate by the planning author, which

1 fs based ona review of population and employment projections; considers atemaive directions
for growth or development, and determines how best to accommodate the development while
protecting provincial interests;

2. Uillzes opportunities to accommodate projocted growth or development trough ntensieation
‘and redevelopment; and considers physical constrains to accommodating the proposed
“development wiin existing setvement area boundaries

3. Is integrated with planning fr infrastructure and publc service fcities, and considers francial
abily over the life cycle of hese asses, which may be demonstrated through asset
‘manegement planning:

4. Confirms suticent water qual, quaity and asimiative capacity of receiving water are
_2valabe to accommodate the proposed development,

5. Confims that sewage and water services can be provided, and

6 Considers cross jurisdictions issues,

Its noted that tem + fom the aforementioned it of considerations is primarly addressed by tha ELR,
\eress this por addresses items 2 through 6, where applicable. Is furthermore noted thatthe PPS
definition for comprehensive review establishes that the level of dota ofthe assessment should
correspond wth the complexty and scale ofthe sattement boundary or development proposal

3.3. City of Brockville Official Plan

‘The Gis Offa Plan establishes how lands are to be sed and growth isto be accarmedated over a
20 year period. In particular, the Plan identifies requirements forthe preparation and consideration of
Initiatives to expand the iy’ Urban Area, undertake Secondary Plans, and create new Employment
‘Areas. Iso establishes policy requirements with respect to conserving Natural Heritage Features and
the Functions and minimizing impacts on the Environment

The Plan also ientfes polices for lands outside ofthe Urban Boundary, designated as “Urban Reserve
‘Area’, Atleast a potion of these lands were antpated to accommodate employment uses. Adtional
dota regarding this designation ae provided in Section 3.3.2 The balance of this section proves an
‘overview ofthe present status ofthe study area lands wth respect o Offa Pan policies and highights
the relevance of specie Offa Plan process requirements regarding the proposed Urban Area
‘expansion an subsequent Secondary Pan.

sn io Ltd ‘yo recite Scary Pan Rap (Oucarbr 2018) 6


Page 50 of 148

2.3.4. Study Area Status & Context

‘As shown in Exhibit 2, the study area contains a number of existing land use designations. tis aso noted
that Future Employment overlay designation applies to lands located along Highway 4 in the
southern portion ofthe study area, Contextual, the study ara s bounded

‘+ Tote north by the City lint shared with the Township of Elzabethtown-Xitlay. Lands inthe
Township are designated Commercial and Rural

+ othe east by lands designated Parks and Open Space, Neighbourhood Avea, Corneil
Corridor and Mixed Use and Commercial Area:

‘+ Tothe south by Highway 401 and lands designated Employment Area and Parks and Open
‘Space aroa as wel a a mixed use node located atthe interchange of Highway 401 and Steward
Boulevard: and,

+ Tothe west by the Cy limit shared wth Efzabethiown-Kiley. Lands adjacent to the subject land
In Elizabethtown Kitey are designated Mineral Resource wth the northern podion designated
Rusa

‘Land use designations within the Study Area include: Urban Reserve; and in various lection slong
‘Stewart Bh, Commercial Corridor Neighbourhood Area: Isttutionl, and Mixed Use and Commercial
nea

Key physical considerations shown In Exhibt 3 inode:

1+ a former waste dsposal site and ts associated 500 metre overay butler;

+ alge portion of he study area being cccuple by significant woodlands:

+a watercourse that traverses the study area in proximity fo the closed waste dposalsite and
{forms apart ofthe Cataraqui Region Conservation Authority Sereaing Area; and

‘+ algott course along Highway 401 atthe south end of he study area, which is dented as @
private recreational area.

3.3.2. Urban Reserve Area — Section 3.2.7 and 4.10 of the Official Plan

‘Te Urban Reserve Area designation was established inthe Official Pan to protact a supply of
undeveloped lands ousite of he it's urban area intended to accommodate future development ouside
‘ofthe intended Planning Horizon. While existing uses are permitted to continue, land division and other
‘development that may prevent the expansion of urban land uses are prohibited. 8y establishing lands to
be reserved for future growth through the establishment of an Urban Reserve, development can be |
|
|

focused into logical areas, ensuring effective servicing and linkages tothe exiting Cy structure,

a rp Utes (hyo rch |Seconsy Po Rap (Decanbr 2018) 7 |

Page 51

Permitted uses within this designation ae imited to exiting and compabble rural uses, agicuture elated
Uses and parks and open space uses (OP Section 4.10). Development within the Urban Reserve Area
‘must protect for future residential, employment, commercial, inttutonal and community related uses,
parks and open spaces.

‘The Ofeial Pian incicates that oredesignate lands within the Urban Reserve Area, the lands need tobe
brought nt the City’s urban boundary. To accomplish his, a Secondary Pian and an Offcal Plan
“Amendment, including associated planing studies, are required tobe completed. Furthermore, and can
‘only be brought into the urban area and made avaiable for development through a comprehensive review
(Section 3.27) as discussed futher in Section 3.3.3 ofthis epor.

Ecibit2 Cy Stucture

a ep es (ty fhe | Secon Fan Ropar December 2016) 8

of 14


Page 52 of 148

Exhibit - Natural Heritage System, Open Space & Constraints

3.3.3. Secondary Plan Policies ~ Section 6.4.1.1 of the Official Plan

‘A Secondary Plan i a ool tha the Ofcial Pan enables to guide the establishment of land uses and
‘orderty development in more specific areas and metheds than through atypical Official Plan Review.
{Implementation of a Secondary Plan involves the preparation and approval ofan Oficial Plan and Zoning
Bylaw Amendment

Brockvile's Official Pian specially requires that a Secondary Plan be prepared and implemented in
‘zder to permit the redesignation and subsequent development of lands in the Urban Reserve Aes. In
‘conto taking nto account future land uses, the Official Plan raquirs thatthe Secondary Planning
Process consider potential effects on existing land uses within the defined study area boundary

Section 64.1.1 ofthe Official Plan denties number of requirements that a Secondary Plan shall
inetd:

‘+A siatement ofthe basis or ationale forthe preparation ofthe secondary pan
‘+ A desciton of the area understudy and the role and relationship of the area tothe City at
whole,

troup Lees ty ol recat | Scary Pan Repo (Oscar 206) 9


Page 53 of 148

‘+ A description ofthe curtent and use, ownership, bul and natura envionment and infrastructure
inthe area;
1+ A statement ofthe desired land use arrangement forthe are:
+ Goals and objectives appropriate forthe area Incding how they ae in keeping wth the over
goals and objectives ofthe Official Plan; and
+ Aconcept plan showing:
Land use:
© Pubbe faces
© Transpotation network
© Municipal services:
© Cura, bult and natural hertage features,
© Phase of development and infrastructure;
> Policies to achive the goals and objectives: and,
© Implementation measures

“This Report represents the supporting studies needed ta provide the necessary background to support
the Secondary Pia; the addtional studies required are summarized In Section 4 ofthis report with .
complete versions found inthe appendices

3.34 Urban Area Expansion Policies ~ Section 3.2.3 of the Official Plan

‘The Urban Area is intended tobe the focus of growth through development, ifiing on existing lots, and
Intensfeation All development in this area must be accommodated on full municipal services and have
oar sound access to appropiate transportation infrastructure. Alldesignations within the iy of
Brockile, withthe exception ofthe Urban Reserve Area, ar considered a pat of the Urban Are.

During the preparation of the City's Ofc Plan, the growth projections concluded thatthe Urban Area
had sufilent land to accommodate the Cis anticipated growth to 2031, However, a more recent growth
‘2nalysis undertaken as part of the City 2015 Employment Lands Review indicated that components of
the Citys employment land supply (ce. age et supply) wa being exhausted trates faster than
antipated during the Offcial Plan Review. A comprehensive review (Section 32.3.4) is therefore
required to aiioss urban area expansion options related to bringing addtional arg ot supply enine,

‘This reviow, which s consistent wth the requirements of the PPS, requires the Cty to demonstrat tha:

there are nt sufcent cpportunities for growth within the urban area;
|i opportunites fo intensification within the wban area have been considered
the amount of land considered in the expansion iste:

a rp Ln Cyt re |seconday Pan Rat (December 2016) 10

Page 54 of 148

iv. the expansion i a logical extension of the urban area and willbe serviced by fll municipal

the and is physically suitable for expansion when considering hazard ands and natural
ettage,

VL the transportation network can accommedate the expansion,

i there are suitable community and puble facies availble,

vii phasing, nancing and construction ofthe expansion have boon considered
x impacts to cultural hentage have been considered, and:
x _cr0ssjurisdctonal issues have been addressed,

“These considerations willbe examined in subsequent sections ofthis report

3.3.5 Employment Areas Policies ~ Section 3.2.5 of the Official Plan

Employment Areas ate the foous for employment growth and permit a varity of uses incucing
‘manufacturing, logistics operations, warehousing, cistrbuton, offices and related industal and business
park uses. These areas are protected specifically for such uses and donot permit institutional
commercial uses as conversion to cher uses from employment is discouraged, In ation to protective
polices, which apply tothe Citys existing Employment Ares, the Urban Reserve Designation nthe
Oficial Plan also apples to Future Employment Areas that have been identified o protect land for
Employment Areas needed beyond the 20-year planning harzon. These land are identified along the
Highway 401 coridr as the proximity to major goods movement facies and corridors Is encouraged in
the Official Plan

‘The purpose of Employment Areas iso promote econemic development and competitiveness by
Providing a range and mix of employment uses and maintaining a range of sutabe sites fr development.
Employment Ares are to be on full municipal services with appropriate transportation inasructure and
Protecting natural hertage features. Trac generated by Employment Areas shouldbe directed to arterial,
roads and kept away fom local residential streets (Section 32.55).

Expansions tothe boundaries of Employment Areas may only be considered atthe time ofa
comprehensive review, which ie outined in Seton 33.4 of thie report lt is noted thatthe requiterents
for an expansion of an Employment Area boundary are very similar to those requied for an expansion to
‘2 urban area; however, an Employment Area expansion must ago consider isues of ncompatbity wit
sensitive land uses as wel as increased trate volumes,

Development within Employment Aroas must also comply with appropriate separation distances from
sensitive land uses or ranspocation routes and that for Employment Areas tha fronton to Highway 401

a ceo ted ‘yc tee Senany Pan Report Dscorber 201) 11


Page 55 of 148

‘oF ater roads, uses shoul be ited to prestige employment and open storage should be screened
‘tom these transportation routes, Development within an Employment Aree mus also consider adequate
cof-treet parking landscaping, and screening

3.3.6 Natural Heritage Features and Functions Policies — Section 3.6.8 of the
Official Plan

Natural Heritage Features are important assets that have been identified inthe Oficial Pian. As stated

Previously, alge portion ofthe study area is occupied by significant woodlands. “Significant woodlands

‘are areas which ae ecologically important in terms of species composition, age of tres and stand

history" (Seaton 3.65.24). Significant woodlands provide both envconmental and economic benoit for

ptvate and puble members ofthe community. In addon is noted that while there are benefits tothe
for

commun in protecting significant woodlands, one of her primary purposes isto provide a hat
wide, inctuding Significant Habitat of Endangered Species and Threatened Species. Prior to
development cecuring within signitant woodlands or within a 120 metre area ofinfuence around
significant woodlands, an Envronmertal Impact Statement (EIS) must be completed and development
‘may only proceed iit has been demonstrated that thee willbe no negative impacts on natura features or
‘ecological functions. The City, Cataraqul Region Conservation Authority and the Ministry of Natural
Resources must be satisfied that no negative impacts wil occur.

This requirement for an EIS has been addressed in Section 4.2 of this Report

3.3.7 Human-Made Hazards Policies ~ Section 3.7.2 of the Official Plan

‘The Offical Pan acknowledges tha the historic use of land inthe iy has resuited inthe potential for
‘some lan tobe contaminated aa result of previous actives. These sites, namely the C's closed
waste disposal sit, represent a potential hazard to human health, ecological health and the natural
environment. However, these lands also represent opportunities for potential redevelopment and
‘reintegration ito the community, they are propery remedied to accommodate a new use.

‘Tho closed waste disposal site can be seen on Enibit2 and Exhibit 3; @ new waste disposal sites not
contemplated within the ity. Any development to occur within the $00 motes bufer surounding the
loved waste disposal ste must prepare a study, which meets the requirements of the Ministry ofthe
Environment and Climate Change guidelines, and examines mitgation measures for land uses near the
waste disposal site. Development occuring within 25 years of the closure ofthe sit, being December 31,
2000, mus receive spprova from the Ministry,

sa rp Led Cy fcr | Secocny Pan Repo December 2016) 12


Page 56 of 148

‘The Cis cuenty undertaking work and holding discussions withthe Ministry to reduce the buffer
surrounding the closed waste dsposal st, This is explained and explore further in this report.

3.3.8 Holding Provisions Policies ~ Section 6.4.2.1 of the Official Plan

‘A Holding Zone isa tool used in accordance withthe provisions of the Planning Act, Official Plan, and
Zoning By-law for those lands that are considered premature or inappropriate for development uni such
tine thatthe proponent has mt certain condtions or requirments

‘The Official Pan etites a numberof provisions in which a holding zone may be used and the process
to have the holding zone ited once the certain contions or requirements have been met. According to
‘he Plan, tho provision in which a holding zone may be used include, but are not ited to, the foowing:

‘the timing ofthe provision of municipal series;

‘+ the phasing and logical progression of development

1+ the provision of adequate service or road infastucture and works

4+ the requted land assembly:

“+ the instalation of noise attenuation measures, where required

“+ the completion and confmaton that envconmenta contamination remediation has occured on
site, or that slstactory vrticaton of suitable envicnmentl ste conditions received bythe Cy,

‘+ the completion of the appropriate supporting stud(is) to the satisfaction ofthe Cy, in
consutation with other agencies, as required:

‘+ confmation thatthe requisite permits and approvals from external authorities have been
recom:

‘+ the completion of a dovelopment or the subdivision of and, including the negation of
development or subdivision agreement,

‘+ that ste pian approval has boon granted by the iy, and a ste plan agreement has been entered
Int, pursuant tothe provisions ofthe Planning Act

“+ thatthe specie ples ofthis Plan have been complied wth: andlor

‘+ addtional actons or requirements may be identified inthe Offical Plan through a ste-specfe
‘general amendment, tthe discretion of the City.

‘A Holding Zone is one ofthe tools entfied inthe Official Plan thal woul allow potential employment
lands to be designated and zoned to permit certain uses while controling the phasing of certain lands.

a rp Lae Cty toch | Seccedny Pan Repo (December 2016) 13

Page 57 of 148

3.4 City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014

‘The Zoning By: is the Cys primary regUatory tool or implementing Oficial Pian policies. It contains
Provisions that regulate the use of land and the siz, height, density and location of builings on those
lands within the City.

Inthe City’s Zoning Bylaw 080-2014, lands within the study area are zoned to accommodate a varity of
land uses, depending on ther locaton. As depicted on Exhibits 4 and 5, lands in proxmiy to Stowart
Boulevard andthe intersection of Parkedale Ave and Stewart Boulevard ar zoned to accommodate
"Commercial and Mixed Uses" and Highway Commercial" uses, with two parcels being zoned for
Institutions use

‘As indicated in previous sections, to accommodate Employment uses in the study area, a change in land
se is required. Therefore, a rezoning wil be necessary to permit employment uses. The resus of any
‘additonal studies may aso be implemented into the implementing Zoning Amendment. This i discussed
futher.

Exhibit 4 City of Brochvite Zoning Bytaw Schedule "A" Map 13,

ut eo Led ty rechate| Secon Pan Rep (Deconber 2016) 14


Page 58 of 148

‘ty ot rochate | Seconda an apr (Decor 2016). 15


Page 59 of 148

4 SUMMARY OF SUPPORTING STUDIES

In order to facitate the Secondary Pian forthe study area, a number of supporting studios were
‘competed. However, to ensure thatthe supporting studies were adequately scoped, a preliminary
“analysis was undertaken to determine which lands may be suited for employment uses including, but not
lite to, the folowing:

1+ Proxiity of existing City services
+ Proximity ofthe Cys existing road network;

‘+ Amount of land identified inthe Employment Land Review undertaken in Phase 1 ofthis Project.
+ Iniatidentiteation of constraints based onthe Oficial Plan; and

+ Proximity of existing senstive land uses.

‘Once this preliminary analysis was undertaken, this information was incorporated ino the supporting
stugies and the boundary, as shown in Exhibi1, was reduced, The following is @ summary ofeach ofthe
supporting stuties; however, the detailed reports can be found inthe Appendices.

4.1 Employment Land Review

[MUM Group Lite, in association wth Statege Projections Inc, completed the Employment Land
Review forthe City of Brockvile in June 2018. The study concluded that he teal service supply could
'be exhausted prior o 2021 a8 emerging development in the Cis Employment Areas are trending
towards more land extensive businesses, requiring lts that are over 4 ha In this respect, given the
demand for large lot, the Cys supply may be exhausted prior to 2031, with the serviced parcels
exhausted as early a8 2016

Th

ratogic directions of the study areas follows:

‘+ Expedited Servicing of Remaining Designated Large Lots - One unsarvied large parcel
emain within the Broome Business Park that. if serviced, could accommodate the development
cof low density land extensive employment uses. It may be cost effective and strategically
desirable to extend municipal services to this large lot as an interim action uni more large lot
supply can be brought enn

‘+ Planning Study for Future Employment Area / Urban Reserve Area in Northwest Quadrant -
“There are only two remaining areas that coul accommodate large-lot employment area
evelopment in the City including the Future Employment Area reserve and the Urban Reserve
‘Area in the northwest quadrant Based ona preliminary review ofboth areas agains the City's
(ficial Plan and input recoived fom the iy, the most appropiate candidates the northwest
‘quadrant given is ability to accommodate larger lt, ably to be easily serviced, ts topography,

a ropes ‘hyo chat | Sconay Pan Repo (December 2016) 16


Page 60 of 148

and its accoss tothe necessary transpertation infrastructure. However, shoul the lands within
the northwest quadrant be considered for future development, adtional planning studies will be
required, including an analysis to confi feasibly of lands in the northwest quadant for his
purpose, folowed by a Secondary Plan process, which would include a phasing and
implementation program.

+ Economic impact Study to Accommodate Proposed Land Extonsive Developments - The
(Cy does not have designated employment lands avalabe to accommodate proposed
developments that require large parcels of land, Should these projects advance, tis
recommended that the City undertake an Economic Impact Study tht woul
8) Redeline the overall baseline residential and non-residential land needs in the Cy
) dently the spin-off econamie benef; and )
©) Redefine the Cay’s needs fr communty and neighbourhood sardoes

‘Tho compete version of the Employment Lands Review Report may be found in Appendix A oth
Repot.
4.2 Environmental Impact Statement

In accordance wih Section 3.65 ofthe Official Pian, which reques the preparation of an Environmental
Impact Statement (EIS) pir to development ocusting within significant woodlands or wihina 120 metre
‘2129 of influence around significant woodlands, an EIS was prepared by Golier Associates, The Report
‘assessed the potential natural hertage features that may be assocated wih the scoped study area to
<elermine development constrains and opportunites. These features may include, but are not Emied to
‘Species at Rik (SAR), significant plant commun, significant widife habitat, and surface water
features and aquatic habits, The process to determine natural heritage features on Ste was based on
<esktop background data review flloned by te reconnaissance and field surveys.

“The proposed development has been assessed fr potetial envrcnmental impacts under the Provincial
Policy Statement, and other policies and regulations, including the Cty of Brockile Ocal Pan, as well
1s the Endangered Species Act

Based on these analyses, itis expected that thee will be no negative impacts to the significant natural
{eatures and functions on the St rin the adjacent lands. These conclusions are based on the following
recommendations

+ Maintain the development envelope shown on Esti 6
‘+ Establish and protect al setbacks as shown on Exhibit 6;

st eo Utd Cy rc | Seen Pan Repo Decanber 2010) 17

Page 61 of 148

Retain rom removing vegetation during the active season for breeding bie (Api 15 ~ August
15), unos construction disturbance is preceded by @ nesting survey conducted by a quified
biologist
Aliow wide the opportunity to eave the construction area safely (ensure gaps in construction
boundary fencing are maintained until vegetation clearing is compte)
‘Create compensation habitat for shrubfealy succession breeding birds on atjacent Lands rior to
‘omoval of these habitats ont;
Undertake addtional vegetation plantings as shown on Exhibit 6 at or before construction: and,
Implement mitigation a outined below and Section 8 of the Repoc during the construction and
‘operational phases ofthe project
‘2 Contamination and Spi Management: A reeponee plan willbe developed that wil be
implemented immediately inthe evento @ sediment release or spl ofa deleterious
substance and an emergency split willbe kept on-site
‘© Erosion and Sediment Controt An erosion and sediment contol plan willbe developed to
minimize the rick of sedimentation n surface water features.
‘© Operation of Machinery: Machinery willbe operated on land outside ofthe proposed 30,
i setback to suface war features. Al refueting, washing, and servicing of machinery
‘willbe completed beyond 30 m of surface water features.
© Permiting A pei rom the CRCA wil be required prior to undertaking any works within
30 m ofthe surface water features, if contemplated as part of detales design

‘a aoa Uo ‘ye tect Sacndey Han Rep (Oscar 2016) 18

Page 62 of 148

Provided all mtigation measures as presented inthe Report are followed, the Project, based on the
Proposed preliminary desig in Exhibt 6, canbe constructed without significant negative impacts onthe
natural environment. reduction ofthe proposed setbacks sted in the report is contemplated atthe
etalied design stage, further study may be required to suppor permit applications to relevant agencies.
Further, detaled mitgation and montering plans may be required as prt of periting ad approves,
including cemoval of butemut trees and works in and around surface water feature, contemplated as
art of detailed design. Each of these additonal requirements should be addressed spar ofan EIS
‘Addendum atthe detailed design stage, as necessary.

‘The complete version of the Environmental Impact Study may be found in Appendix 8 to this Report
4.3. Financial Impact Assessment

(One ofthe components ofthe Secodnary Plan requirements is o evaluate municipal ancl isk roating
to infrastructure investments associated withthe proposed Employment Area. lt includes a qualitative
summary of revenue tools avaiable othe ity and an analysis ofthe cost and revenue factors
associated wih the Secondary Plan. The conclusions ofthe Financial Impact Assessment may be
summarized 9s flows:

Croup Lene hy fecha | Secondary Pan Repeat 2015) 10

Page 63 of 148

‘+ Based on preliminary screening of potential revenue tools, itis recommended thatthe Cy make
se of property taxes and user fees to finance infrastructure spending,
appropriate revanve tool, given that hey ao slf-aised and more easly implemented

‘+ Through an ansiysis of estimated revenues and expenditures associated with the Secondary
Pin, it was determined thal the new Secondary Panis unkely to pose financial ska the City
of Brockille, and could generate a postive fiscal outcome of approximately $17.7M under Option .
4 (600 Exhibit 13) and $8.2M under Option 2 (see Exhibit 14). This is due othe fait low capital
investment necessary, and the significant increase in property tax revenue associated wth build
cout

these are the mast

‘+ From a risk-minimzation standpoint, it would be prudent forthe Cyto undertake more detailed
‘market demand and nancial feasibly studies prior othe implementation of each phase ofthe
‘Secondary Plan a more reliable, localy-specific and current data willbe avalable in elation to
market absorption, infrastructure cost and revenve efiency factors

“The compete version of the Financial Impact Assessment may be found in Appenalk to this Report.
4.4. Water, Wastewater, & Stormwater Analyses

Understanding the ability fo service the study area with water and sewor services i fundamental to
cxpanuing the Cts urban boundary int the Urban Reserve ea. The Ci Official Pian provides
spect policy guidance regarding water, wastewater, and stocrwator systems, The Plan requires that ll
new development be serviced by wator and sewer services (Section 5.3.1.1) and that hose systems
‘operate within thei designed capacity (Section 5.3.1.2). The Plan also requires that applications
invohing significant development need fo ensure that runoff is cotrobed and mitigated on site,
‘addressing polenta adverse impacts downetream from a quantty and qualty perspective (Section |
5.38.)

‘The iy’ Water Systoms Division ofthe Envkonmental Services Deparment operates and maintains the
Water Treatment Plant as wel 2 the reservoirs and booster pumping station throughout the Cy. The
\Wieter Distribution Section ofthe Pubic Works Division operates and maintains the water detrbuton
system (pipes, valves, hydrants te).

‘The Ciy has one Water Treatment Plant (WTP) which is located at 20 Rivers Avenue and draws water
‘tom the St. Lawrence River. The WTP is Class Il treatment plant wth a maximum capacity of 6.4
ML of treated inking water for ditbton. The WTP isa conventional, direct firaton purication plant
hich serves the entre City of Brockvile (22,000 persons) as well as @ portion ofthe Township of
Elzabethiown-Kiey (350 persons). The Cis water distribution system is shown in Exit 7.

a oop Lea yf chute Sco P Raat (Deconber 2018) 20

Page 64 of 148

Exhibit” City of Brochvite Water Distribution Systom

Based onthe 2014 data provided by the Cy the WTP operated at only 29% of ts design capacty
(96,400 may), treating an average of 10,473 m°kday In addon tothe WTP data provided, the City has
indicated that here continues o be significant capacty avalable to accommodate new development,
Incluaingestabishing 2 now Employment Area in the Northwest Quadrant ofthe Cty. From the
“standpoint of water distribution, there is curently a 300 mm diameter watermain located on Stewart
‘Boulevard at the termination of Laurier Boulevard, a the edge of the study area. Based on input from the
(Cy, this watermainis adequately sized to meet the proposed demand ina new Employment Area and,
can be easly extended tote study area

‘The Gy's Water Pollution Gontrl Centre (WPCC) is located just east of the Cy lms in the Township of
Eeabethiown-Kiley. The associated wastewater systems are shown in Exh 8. In 2014, the WPCC
‘operated at 76% ofits design capacty (21,800 m¥ay), treating an average of 16,599 may. Curent,
there isa 375 mm diameter sanitary sewer ine onthe eastern boundary of the Study ares located along

as crop tes Cyl chat | Sexy Pan Repent ecember 2016) 21


Page 65 of 148

Stewart Boulevard atthe termination of Laurier Boulevard, approximately 150 metres from the study area,

ity of Brockville
SiS

Exhibit 8 City of Brockvte Sanitary Sewer System

“This sanitary sewer ne along Stewart Boulevard ows 1o a downstream pumping station located at the
intersection of Chelsea Steet and Stowart Boulevard. The pumping station has a design capacty of
approximately 6,000 mKday and as of 2014, operates a 5% ofits capacity (300 may). In discussions
wah the City, Employment Areas curently within the Cty do not generate significant amounts of
wastewater due to the nature an type ofthe uses, As a result, tis reasonable fo assume tha the ype
‘of uses proposed inthe new Employment Area in he study area will generate low amounts of
wastewater, and can be treated within the Cit existing WPCC capacy. Furthermore, the wastewater
‘system inthis area is adequately sized to meet the proposed demand from a new Employment Area and
canbe easily extended fo the boundaries of the study area,

“The Ci existing stormwater system is divided into six sections a8 shown in Exhibit 9, As noted inthe
‘sting Official Plan, the lands north of Highway 401 (wth the exception ofthe indusial development
2st of Calfomia Avenue) are within the drainage area ofthe existing stormwater detention basin located
north ofthe Memexial Centre, between Miload Avenue and the CPR rail ine. The purpose of the

a Gro rad ‘hy of roe | Secondary an Repat (December 2016) 22


Page 66 of 148

<etenton basin to provide food control for Bue Creek, which mitigates any adverse effects onthe
downstream reaches of Buels Creek and Butlers Creek

xtibit 9 Cty of Brockvile Storm Drainage Sytem

Development ofthe lands noth of Highway 401 has cocurred more recent than the lands othe south,
‘and as such, the storm sewer systoms have been designed in accordance with contemporary standards,
In planned manner.

|With respec tothe lands north ofthe Highway 401 corridor, the storm sewer systems (ncuding
‘stormwater management faites) must continue to be designed in accordance with current Cay
requirements as wel asthe ProvinlalCRCA Stormwater Planning and Design Manual crteria in a
planned manner. Furthermore, the Cty has indicted that itintends to require inaviual employment uses
temanage any stormwater on sito to ensure there are no postfow issues in he system. AS a resu, any
‘on-site stormwater retention wl be reviewed and approved bythe City onan indvidual basis through the
‘Site Pian review process.

at eo Led ‘tye ect Seconny Pan Repo (Deourber 208). 23


Page 67 of 148

In summary, the City has eapacty within ts water and wastewater systems fo accommodate anticipated
‘development vithin the study area, Furthermare, the location of these services isa the termination of
Laurier Boulevard, which the Ciy intends o extend prior to development being approved, Last, the Cty
‘il require that all stormwater be managed on ste fo ensure that there are no impacts onthe system
‘tom a qualty and quantity perspective, Asa resut, itis reasonable to suggest hat Ris within the City's
‘means to service new development inthe study area,

4.5 Traffic Impact Analysi

BT Enginoerng was retained bythe City of Brockville to complete a Transporation impact Assessment
(71a) in the study area, shown n Exhibit 10, based onthe establishment ofan Employment Area win
the City's Urban Reserve Area and eater concepts indicating location and sizeof developable parcels.

hibit 1011 Stody Aros

(Overal the existing roadway network wiin the study area operates ala reasonable lave of service:
however, opportunites exist to optimize the trafic operations. As development ofthe proposed Light
Indust / Business Park proceeds, which wilincrease trafic demands, is recommended that:

‘re to ‘yt rechate| Secor Pan Report (Decerber 206). 24


Page 68 of 148

‘+ Traffic signal iming modtications athe intersection of Stewart Boulovard and Jefferson Drive
‘imately ince the provision of  nrthbound left tum phase

*+ Aortnbound left turn phase also be implemented at the intersection of Stewart Boulevard and
Laurier Avenue during the am peak period wih Phaso 1 ofthe planned development.

+ Protection be made forthe future provision and installation of let turn lanes on Stewart Biv at
the intersection with Laurier Bhd to improve trafic operations and safety

BT Enginoerng also studied he Stewart Boulevardiighway 401 interchange to determine fit could
‘accommodate long combination vehicles (LVS) fo serve the City’s existing Broome Business Park and
potential uses within the proposed Businessindusrial Park. BT Engineering datormined that
‘accormmodating LCV is possible provided the folowing improvements ae undertaken:

‘+ Provision ofa channelized right tum lane onto nochbound Stewart Boulevard atthe North Ramp
Terminal. Channelizing the right tum movement coming off westbound Highway 401 would have
‘some propery impacts but would alow the right tum radius o be increased s0 that LCVs couls
be accommodated

‘+ Adjusting the leation of the southbound stop baron Stewart Boulevard a the South Ramp
“Terminal would enable LCVs, exting eastbound Highway 401, o complet the left turn movement
‘onto northbound Stewart Boulevard without conficing with souhbound trae.

‘+The wheal tracking of LCVs onthe ramps’ existing paved shoulders may requ reconstruction of
the existing shouters ofthe North — West, East~ NortvSouth and West NorthSeuth ramps
unless the existing ramps were constructed with ful depth asphalt

Ihwas also determined that access to eastbound Highway 401 cannot accommodate LCVs without the
Construction ofthe Long Range Plan for he interchange. This would involve replacing the N-E inne loop
‘amp wth diamond interchange configuration. Tha requires replacamant ofthe existing Stowert
‘Bovlevard structure to provide Southbound left turn lane onto new N-E amp since widening the
‘existing structure, which i nearing the end of its service fe, appears tobe impact.

‘The movement of CV's through the interchange should be re-examined as part of the preliminary and
<etatod design of any long term interchange improvements. It appears that some minor adjustments to
the preliminary ramp goometry may be required if LOV's are to be accommedated.

reconstruction ofthe ramp shoulders, a an interim improvement, is proposed to accommodate some
LLcV movements, consideration shoul be given to implementing the shoerm operational
improvements to the Highway 401 ext ramps 98 dented in the previous Highway 401 Interchange
Study

a rp Und Cry ot echate| Sco Man Repat (Decnber 2016) 25


Page 69 of 148

‘The complete version ofthe Trafic impact Analysis, along withthe Technical Memorandum Regaring
Highway 401 and Stewart Boulevard interchange, may be found in Appendices D-1 and O-2 respectively
‘othis Report

4.6 Stage 2 Archaeological Assessment

‘The Archaeologists In. was contract bythe Cy of Brockvile to conduct a Stage 2 Archaeological
‘Assessment of the study area. The subject property i situated within the ety boundaries in the nother
pat of he city, just west of Stewart BivMwy #29 and east ofthe former municipal andl ste,

In advance ofthe Stage 2 assessment, Stage 1 background study ofthe subject property was
conducted in order to document the archaeological and land use history and present contion ofthe ste
‘During the background analysis, several sources were referenced to determine if features or
characteristics that may identify the potential for pre-conact and post-contatarchasologlal resources to
ost

‘A Stage 1 background study of he subject property was conducted to provide information about the :
property’s geography, history, previous archaeological eldwerk and current land condition inorder to
‘evaluate and document the property's archaeological potential and to recommend appropriate strategies
{or Stage 2 survey. The Stage 1 background study concluded thatthe property exhibits archacological
potential due tothe flowing onsite charactors:

‘+ The 1878 Historical Aas ofthe United Counties of Leeds and Gronvile, Ontario, indicates that
the subject property le adjacent to two histori raneportation routes, Le. Stewart Blvd

‘+The 1878 Historical Atlas ofthe United Counties of Leeds and Grenvlo, Ontario, ndeats that
there are fve structures depicted within he lots associated with the subject property although
‘none appear tobe drety within the subject property.

+ An existing watercourse runs through the subject property

‘A Stage 2 property assessment was conducted to document al archaeological resources on the property,
{o determine whether the property contains archacological resources requiring futher assessment, and to
recommend nex steps. In accordance withthe 2011 Standards and Guidelines for Consutant
‘Archaeologists, andthe characteristics ofthe property, was determined thal he Stage 2 survey bo
Conducted by test pit survey. As a result of the Stage 2 property assessment and analysis of he test pit
‘suv, ican be concluded that there are no archacological resources within the subject property. The
repost recommends that no further archaeological assessment ofthe property requ to pect
{evelopment ofthe Employment Area, |

an rp Levins hyo rca | Scone Pan Repent December 2016) 26

Page 70 of 148

‘Tho complete version of the Stage 2 Archacologzal Assessment may be found in Appendix Eto this
Repot.

4.7 Land Use Within 500M of Landfill Site

“The Brockvile Landi is located on Par of Lot 17, Concession 2 (see Exhb& 11). The Brockvlle Lani
‘was in operation from about 1964 unt it closed on December 81, 2000. The otal area of the Brockville
Lancfil Site is approximately 41.86 hectares, including a 14.18 hectares off

oe pA

Exhibit 11 Closed Waste Disposal Ste

‘Based onthe review of exsting information pertaining tothe closed Brockvile Landi Site and associated
Understanding ofthe proposed land development tothe north and east ofthe landfil (municipal serviced
industrial or ight industria), adverse effects fom the closed lndfl ste are not anticipated, Therefore, in
‘cordance with MOECC Guideline D4, industial or ight industial and use within 500 metres of the fil
area is considered appropriate.

Considering thet the nearest offsite location within the proposed development area is approximately 40
‘metres rom the fil area, specication of a 30 metre ble tem the fil area, forthe purpose of esting
land use (n accordance with MOECC Guideline 0-4), isnot required, An amendment to the Cy of
Brockvile Landi Site ECA, to exclude the area of the former shudge lagoons from the lai Sto, wil be
‘required in order to develop this potion of the lands

‘The complete version ofthe Land Use Within SOOM of Lani Site Report may be found in Append F to
this Report

ta Crop ad ty ol chute | Secodny Pan pot (Decor 2016) 27


Page 71 of 148

5 SECONDARY PLAN CONCEPT

“The intent of this Report is to study the feasbilty of establishing a new Employment Area on certain lands
within the study area. Under the current Ofcial Pian, uses that would be proposed within an Employment
‘Area are not curently prmited. To permit these uses, the Oficial Pian requires the preparation ofa
‘etailed Secondary Plan that identies an area boundary, and assesses how land within the area may be
used, how i may be accessed and senced, and what potential impacts may aise from establishing the
Employment Area,

‘As noted in Section 2 ofthis report, an overal study area boundary was established to determine which
lands are appropriate for employment uses. As discussed previously, the overall study area is generally
Coincident wih the boundaries ofthe Citys Urban Reserve Area identied inthe Official Pan, located
noth of Highway 401, jst east of Stewart Boulevard to Kensington Parkway, south ofthe Cys nrthern
‘municipal boundary, and east ofthe City's westem municipal Boundary. Once the overal study area
boundary was established, a detailed assessment was undertaken fo determine the lands that re
‘appropriate for employment uses, luther defining the Secondary Pian Area, This assessment also
Inchuded removing lands that may be considered undevelopable and excusing other lands from further
consideration fr urban uses, based on the folowing factors:

+ polentalimpacs on, or proximity to, sensitive land uses

“+ envienmentalo other constrains

“+ lands representing a logical future extension of residential development; or

‘+ cther intervening and uses that may redevelop overtime but curently pose an impediment to
immediate development

‘The results ofthe exclusionary analysis informed the preparation of @ Secondary Plan Area, which
Signicantly smaller than the overall study area identified in Section 2. To assist in understanding how
‘the lands within the Secondary Plan Area wil be considered for employment uses, a land use concept
was prepared as depicied in Exhibit 12. The concept focuses on maximizing the development potential
for employment area uses, whe minimizing the potential for land use conficts between existing uses
(2.9. closed waste dsposal ste and rwalresidetial ts) and future uses.

‘The land use concept maintains the “Future Employment Area” overay identified nthe Official Plan along
the Highway 401 corior and south of Parkedale Avenue, and recognizes the location of large exiting
‘ecrestional and use (gol cours). The concept also proposes fo extend the "Future Employment Area"
‘overay to include other lands in proximity that shouldbe considered for future employment uses but
because of intervening and uses and issues with immediate serviceabilly, they coud nat be considered
forlmmetiate development Furthermore, ls also noted that the amount of and presented by the

nro tes ‘yt reat | Seco Fan Repo (Decor 2016) 28


Page 72 of 148

“Future Employment Area" and proposed extension, exceeds the City's immediate need for employment
‘development. AS a resu, appropriate phasing of servicing and development willbe required inne with
‘hasing shown on Exhibit 12. Near-term employment area development wil focus on vacant lands inthe
‘Secondary Plan Area, which are generally located north of Parkedale Avenue and south of Vitoria Road
“The remainder ofthe study area, speciical the lands located nodh of Victoria Road and wast of Stewart
‘Boulevard, wil remain designated as Urban Reserve unl such tie as a nod fr these lands is
confined through further study, 2 required by the Cis Oficial Plan, It was determined, however, that
«ue to the configuration of the uses identified inthe Concept, residual area of existing cesidental lands
remained slong Parkedale Ave, east ofthe Kenifed "Phase 3" lands on Exhibit 12, While these lands are
‘no intended for Employment Uses a this ime, tis recommended that they be brought into the City's
Urban Area to allow for amore contiguous land use structure,

‘The development ofthis Secondary Plan and concept pan reflect Key policy parameters applicable tothe
establishment ofa new Employment Area in the Cy, as descrbed in Section 3.25 ofthe ys Oficial
Pian. In particular, the Plan requires that these new Employment Areas in the City

+ promote adverse economic base by maintaining arange and choice of suitable employment
sits that suppor a range of employment and ancilary uses

+ are the fecus of major concentrations of ndustria-elated employment growth and development
in the City, which may include manufacturing, logistics operations, warehousing istrbuton,
offices and related industrial and business park uses, nation to ancilary commercial uses
serving the Employment Are

‘+ donct support instutional uses or destinaton-ointed commercial and shopping utes. such as
Large Format Retal uses,

‘and

‘The Secondary Plans intended to estabish a new Employment Area designed to accommodate lage-tot
‘employment uses t's als the intent ofthe proposed Plan to permit a varity of employment uses of
‘varying sizes. This wil ensure that asufcient range and choice of los exit to sccommodate projected
‘demand wtile establishing an overal land use pattem that meets the goals, objectives, and pokes for
Employment Areas and associated uses supported in the Cys Oficial Plan, The Secondary Plan
‘Concept designates a gross total of approximately 76 a trough fe phases as denied on Ext 12 to
this Report.

Phase 1 is approximatay 20 ha;

Phase 2's approximately 16 ha
‘© Phase 38 approximately 9.5
(© Phase 4s approximately 24.7 ha; and

a Gop unas Chyof rote | Secondary Pan Rear (December 2016) 20


Page 73 of 148

(© Phase Sis approximately 12.5 ha

‘Development tthe new Employment Area i intended tobe phased in conjunction with nal work
‘cocuring southwest of the intersection of Victoria Road and Stewsrt Boulevard, general atthe
termination ofthe Laurier Boulevard extension asi approaches the Secondary Pan Area, 38 ontiied on
Ebit 12, and then extending west as addtional acces is needed for new development

Phases 1 and 2 represent the largest cotiguous developable area in the study area. Phase 1 has been
configured tobe approximately 20 hectares asthe ELR identi thatthe Cty may require up to 20,
hectares of adional large lt serviced lands andi the most ecient to access and service. Phase 2
represents the balance of the contiguous developable area and a logical progression for development
‘Phase 3 i an isolated and smaller parca of land, which has direct access trom Parkedale Avenue and ie
close to Highway 401; however, duet the curent land need and constraints related to immestte
serviceability, Phase 3s being dated to be protected for future employment. Subsequent Phases 4
and 5 wil thon occur tothe south along Parkedale Avenve, which have been brought ito the City's
Urban Area but remain designated as Parks and Open Space to recognize the existing use ofthe lands
{28 ago course whe continuing to protect them fr fur employment. It was recognized that these
lands were too large to retain as one phase and have beon configured based on existing environmental
Constraints, which includes @ watercourse, I shouldbe noted thatthe configuration of Phates 2 through
5, incuding any internal road networks and access, may be refined based on the ate of development and
be reconfigured based on incuring demand

‘Tho lands identified for each phase generally avoid any significant environmental features tha need to be
‘conserved, pursuant tothe recommendation inthe EIS, excluding wo interment streams and a small
umber of butlerut trees. The two intermittent streams were not removed from the overall land area due
tothe adctional study requirements needed to determine how the interment stoams on the Phase 1
‘and 2 lands may be altered or relocated, required. The few butternut ees would need tobe evaluated
further, oF incorporated into the design, prior to development cccuring

“The lands ouside of the identified phases, generally betwoen Phases 1 and 2 at the noth and Phase 3 at
the south, have been identiied as conservation lands due to the existence of important envtonmental
features, which were evaluate in tho EIS. The significance of having these identified as conservation
Jans is that they wil be protected fr the long tom and added to the City's Natural Hertage System,
hich allows forthe connection of widifle corridors and protection of wetlands and woodiands.

|n adaiton to the ands identified in each ofthe fve phases, a small area of approximately 0:2 ha,
located atthe termination of Chelsea St, is identified as “Employment Area" on Exhibit 12. The area is

an lop ras Cty ot rechate| Seca Fan Reon (Deamber 2018) 20

Page 74 of 148

‘not currenty incaded within the Hentfied phases, though it could be used to round out the existing
evelopment at the terminus of Chelsea St.

‘Section 4.3 of his Repot outines the lkely nancial implications of estabishing an Employment Area ln
the study area It was concluded that, due to the proximity of infrastructure, as nied previously, the
‘amount of revenue that may be generated by bringing new employment uses online far outweighs the
Uptont cost that would be incurred by extending municipal water and sewer services tothe proposed

Employment Area,

‘As confirmed in Section 44 ofthis Report, municipal servicing is avalable adjacent to the study area,
‘Analyses ofthe existing water, wastewater, and stormwater systems indeate thal there is sufficient
capacity to accommodate employment uses forthe long tm, without the need to upgrade the City’s
systems. Its envisioned thatthe area would be serviced bythe water and wastewater systems that
terminate at Laurier Boulevard immediately east ofthe study area. To ensue there are no impact onthe
stomuwate systems from 2 quay and quantity perspective, al stormwater sto be managed on-site,

‘The existing transportation network wil be ullized to service the axonal employment uses, Access will
be provided from Stowart Boulevard, which have the appropiate design configuration and avalabe
‘capacity to accommodate the acdtional employment development. Smaller, iteral road networks may
be established as development proceeds watin the study are; however, a this ime, is premature to
configure a more detailed network given that future users may have variable needs and parca size

requirements.

‘Based onthe analyses of the study area and associated avatabe land, te adequacy ofthe
transportation and wastelvastowater infrastructure, and complementary land uses along Stewart
Boulevard, the creation of an employment area and requiste urban area expansion represents a logical
‘growth strategy forthe Cy. Furthermore, given the presence ofthe closed waste disposal st inthe
‘southwest comer of the study area, and the restrictions associated wih establishing sensitiv land uses
{in proximity to the site, the establishment of employment uses Inthe area, as proposed, an appropiate
_alterative. The retention ofthe maining Urban Reserve within the study area also protects for future
‘expansion of ether complomentary uses at such ime as a need is identiied, and subject to detaed ste
analysis.

a ro us (ty tena | Scary Pan Rep (Dear 2016) 31


Page 75 of 148

City ofroebie

“Secondary Plan Concept Plan

BHP Ae
— a

‘Exhibit 12 Secondary Plan Concept

To asset in understanding how the lands may be developed over tino, a Development Concept was
prepared as shown in Exhibits 13 and 14. I shoud be nated that this i for conceptual purposes only and
Intended to show potential densty and a general layout. Should the need fom any Employment Area

a Crp Las ‘yo acct Seconday Pan Rep Onc 2018) 32


Page 76 of 148

sors require the lot configurations and internal road network to be aeed, tis wil not require addtional
study or amendments othe Oficial Pian

Nor West ocke
Employment ange

Genet Se shea


Page 77 of 148

6 CONCLUSIONS

‘The Cy’ employment land supply was established during the last Oficial Plan Review based on
“analysis complete in 2009, The 2015 Employment Land Review identified a need for adsitonal large-ot
‘employment lands within the Ciy of Brockvile, which arose as a result of cicumstances that could not
hhave reasonably been predicted inthe 2008 analysis.

Based onthe latest analysis, which utized 2011 Census results, the existing supply of senced large lots
‘within the Urban Area is unlikely to meet projected employment demand o 2031, and may be exhausted
as early as 2016. While some vacant employment ands remain avallable within the City’s Urban Area,
those particular parcels ae not generally aligned withthe needs ofthe local market which are trending
towards businesses equing serviced las of over 4 hain size,

‘The Cy’ ELR identied an urgent need fr approximately 11 to 19 ha of addtional and tobe provided in
the fom of serviced lots capable of accommodating large employment uses. In response the identiied
‘need, this Secondary Plan has been prepared forthe Urban Reserve Avea lands located inthe Cys
northwest quadrant, wth the goal of providing additional employment land supply for Brockvle. The
proposed lands are currently outside of the y's Urban Boundary and represent the last remaining
velopabie lands in he City that could accommodate large-scale employment area development. The
denied lands had been previously contemplated for fture urban development, wih the intonton that
some poston thereo! would accommodate some form of employment uses.

‘To permit the Cty o allow development within the Urban Reserve Area, a Comprehensive Review was
required, The resus ofthe Comprehensive Review undertaken as pat of he preparation ofthis
‘Secondary Plan found that

“+ withthe mix of complementary uses located along Stewart Boulevard, the creation ofthe
‘employment area is logical extension ofthe existing urban area withthe iy

‘+ the City has the eapact for both water and sewer services to service the aditional employment
lands inthe study area;

‘+ the existing transportation network can support the proposed designation;

‘+ employment development inthe study area wil not compromise any cultural hertage resources
‘since a Stage 2 Assessment determined the absence of any such resources inthe study area;

‘+ the Environmental impact Study determined that provided all tigation measures inthe Report
‘ate folowed, the Project, based onthe proposed preliminary design, canbe constructed without
significant negative impacts onthe natural environment; and

a rp Let ‘tye ect Secnary Pan Rept (Oncor 2018) 34


Page 78 of 148

‘+ the phasing of development would permit a large-scale employer to rialy develop west of
‘Stowart Blvd. north of the pipeine, and allow fr future development to occur south along
Parked Ave

‘The Secondary Plan concept identifies gross total of epproximataly 76 ha for development through ve
phases. Phase 1 inches approximately 20 ha of and, Phase 2 Includes 16 ha of land, Phase 3 includes
1.5 haof land, Phase 4 includes 247 haof land, and Phase 5 includes 12.5 ha of land. Given the varity
‘of potential uses that cout be located within the proposed Employment Aree, fture development wl
‘need to adhere to requied seperation stances and buffering requrements. In ado, the
Implementation of appropriate mitigation measures wl be required to minimize impacts on nearby
residential uses and natural ertagefeatores andthe functions. It should be need thatthe
recommended phasing may be revised if largeot employment use wor to locate on lands ented on
the Land Use Concept within he fst or second phases.

“The objectives and key directions ofthe Secondary Plan are summarized as flows:

‘+ A concept land use plan forthe development of a new Employment Area on lands located inthe
Citys northwest quadrant;

‘+The proposed Employment Area wil be integrated with existing street connections

‘+ Easting uses are recognized, and recommendations are provided to ensure land use
compatiity trough separation distances, as well as appropiate buffering

‘+ Requioments for new development tobe on fll municipal services and to occur in a logical and
‘orderly manner based on the identified phasing;

‘+ Polis to direct development away from hazardous lands and tes and to require more precise
‘elinestion ofthe limits ofthese areas and developable lands through more detalled studies
required in connection with davelopment proposal

+The planned land use pater wal promote connectivity and integration wih existing uses, guide
the future locaton of roads, intersections, parks and open space landslconsertion lands, and
rovie forthe distinction between the public rim and pivate land

‘+ Specie ceria for development wil be included inte amending Official Plan polis to ensure
that:

© develops
forecasts;
semiing iin place prior to development being permite
necessary transportation infrastructure has been mproved, where needed, accordance
with the Traffe Impact Study;

3 will contribute to meeting the population andor employment growth

a rou ia ty of roche | Sarr Pan Roper Decor 201) 36


Page 79 of 148

© land use compatbity and appropiate urban design requtements are adhered to
Including, but not ited to:
+ building oentation;
+ facade and landscaping reatments;
+ buffering f adjacent sensitive land uses where necessary
+ the locaton of parking areas; and
+ provision of sidewaks, community tails, pedestian crossings and signage.
© natural heritage features and their functions are maintained and, where possible,
enhanced
“The sencing strategy adéresses the provision of municipal services fr future development,
policies for phasing of development, drcton forthe constructon, mainlnance and extension of
services, and paley rection for implementing on-site stormvater management facies.
‘The goals and key dictions of the Secondary Plan are in keeping with, and support the goals
‘and objectives ofthe Cty of Brockvile Ocal Plan. In particular, the Secondary Plan forthe
new proposed Employment Area
© Assists in retaining and attrecing young people to ensure the Cis sustained viabilty
Int the future, through the provision of adetonal ands for future employment
opportunites
‘© Assists in maintaining a strong employment base by supporting the retention and
‘expansion of existing employment, nd providing appropiate lands to support new
‘employment
© Provides employment land wih access to Highway 401, a5 satepc transportation
cotidr, and supports the creation of economic development oppotuiies associated
wth the Highway 40% exposure:
© Directs employment growth o appropriate locations that provide sufcient existing and
planned infastuctre
Ensures there are sufclent ands designated for employment uses wihin the Cy,
12 Proms an investment in infasructure to attract and support business development and
‘evestment
1s sensitive to emerging trends in the employment sector and provides land of an
tractive size to accommodate large-scala employment area development
© Supports the attraction ofa wide range of employment uses, increasing local employment
opportunities
© entity, protect and enhance the natural forms, features and functions wihin the Cy,
where possible and appropriate;

an crop tas Cty ol che | Second Pan Rot (December 216) 96

Page 80 of 148

‘© Protect Provincial Significant Wettands and sigiicant habitat of endangered species
_and threatened species by directing development and ste alteration away fom such
‘areas, by careful evaluating the potential impacts of development on adjacent lands,
‘and by strving to protect areas of significant woodland, wife habitat and valloyands;
and

‘© Ensure thatthe principles of environmental stewardship and protection are maintained for
public lands intended for conservation, including Community and City-wide Parks.

‘By completing this Secondary Plan Report, the requirements fo: the preparation of a Secondary Pla
\ihich includes the Comprehensive Review requirements, outined inthe Official Pian have been met. To .
Implement the Secondary lan, an amendment to the C's Official Plan and Zoning By-aw, which

‘equres public consultation and consideration by Counc, wil be required. if approved, the amendments

il continue to be implemented in conjunction with the balance ofthe provisions ofthe Official Plan and

‘Zoning Bylaw

a eo oa Cty of rate | Saconany an Rep ecerber 2010) 37 |

Page 81 of 148
‘Schedule “C” to Report 2017-080-05

Brochite Employment nd Satondary Pian
‘tl Pan Amendnont rat)

AMENDMENT NO. 200%
‘TO THE OFFICIAL PLAN FOR |
‘THE CITY OF BROCKVILLE,

‘Teen 26


Page 82 of 148

‘roche Employment Lane Secondary Plan
“ll Pin Aaencinet frat)

‘THE CORPORATION OF THE CITY OF BROCKVILLE

BY-LAWNO. xx.xx- 90

‘A By-law to adopt Amendment No. 0010 the Official Plan for the City of Brockville

WHEREAS the Counel of the Corporation of the City of Brockvila, in accordance with the
provisions of the Planning Act, R.S.0. 1990, as amended, HEREBY ENACTS AS
FOLLOWS:

1. Amendment No, xxx tothe Official Pian forthe City of Brockville shall be ands hereby
adopted.

Read three times and finally passed in open Council this xxth day of woe, 100

“Mayor

“Clerk

‘Tocoar@


Page 83 of 148

roche Employan Land Socontay Plan
‘ofl Pian Ament ra)

‘THE CONSTITUTIONAL STATEMENT
PARTA-THE PREAMBLE - does not consttute part ofthis amendment,
PART B- THE AMENDMENT consisting ofthe following text and Schedules "A", "

‘and "C’, constitutes Amendment No, xxx of the Cy of
Brockvile Official Plan

Deana ae 7


Page 84 of 148

‘Broce Employment Lands Scerdry Plan
‘fic Pie Amendment (rat)

AMENDMENT NO. xxx.
(OF THE CITY OF BROCKVILLE OFFICIAL PLAN

PART A- THE PREAMBLE

Purpose of the Amendment:

‘The purpose of this Amendment isto amend Section 4.7 and Schedules “1”, "3", and "6"

ofthe iy of Brochile Off! Plan to Implement the Employment Lands Secondary

Location:

‘The lands subject to this Amendment are generally located within the City's Urban

Reserve Avea in the northwest quadrant of the City, and are indicated on the attached
Schedule "A

Basis:

‘The basis for this Amendment is contained in the Secondary Plan Report xxx, as
adopted by Council on xoc00x. The City has undertaken a comprehensive review and
initiated an amendment to the City of Brockville Official Plan to expand the Urban Area
and to redesignate addtional Employment Area lands to permit the development of large-
lot employment uses, which the City is unable to accommodate due to insufficient supply
of suitably designated land. In support of the initiative, the City has undertaken a
Secondary Plan along with background analyses provided by an Employment Lands
Review, Environmental Impact Statement, Trafflc Impact Study, Financial Impact
Assessment, Land Use Whin 500M of Landfil Site, and Stage 2 Archaeological
‘Assessment,

This Amendment also intends to bring residual residential lands into the City’s Urban
Boundary thereby creating a more contiguous land use structure.

PART B - THE AMENDMENT
‘This part of the document, entitled "Part B - The Amendment’, and consisting of the:
following changes to the text and Schedules, constitutes Amendment No. ax of the City
of Brockvile Official Pan,

Dotalls of the Amendment

The City of Brockville Oficial Plan is amended as follows:

1. Section 47.4 Site Specific Policy Area is amended by adding “Section 47.4.4" after
“Section 4.7.4.3" as follows:

Dosa 6 a


Page 85 of 148

roche Employmen Lane Secondary Plan
“ti! lon Senda (ra

“4.7.4.4 SSPA- Northwest Employment Aroa

47.441 Permitted Uses
8. Permited Uses shall include:

i. Light industrial uses such as ight manufacturing or processing,
Warehouses, wholesale establishments, prestige employment, and small.
scale offices and business services,

ii Retalland Commercial uses associated with, and clearly ancitary to, the
main employment use

Uses accessory to any ofthe permited uses inthe Employment Are.

4744.2 — Gonoral Land Use Policies

It shall be the policy ofthe City tat:

‘a. Areas that shal be protected for Future Employment are identifiod on
‘Schedule 1. These lands represent Future Employment Land and shall be
protected from incompaiible land uses due to their strategic location in the
City and access to major transportation comidors.

b. Development within an Employment Area should be compatible with adjacent
residential uses and the zoning by-law will establish a range of uses that
minimize land uses conficts and promote sound urban design.

©. These lands have been identified to accommodate uses that require largo
lots, which may result in a variabilly of lt configurations and sizes as tho
lands build out over time. As a result, an intemal road network has not been
identified on any Scheduies to this Plan. New roads may be constructed
without an amendment fo this Plan and may be identified on the Land Use
‘Schedules as the Plan is regularly reviewed and updated,

4. Aholding symbol "H" shall be applied to certain lands in accordance with the
provisions Section 6.4.2.1 of the Official Plan until Counci is satisfied that:

i. Development has been phased appropriately and lands are nooded to
accommodate development.

‘e. The City shall require the use of onsite stormwater management facilities for
new developments, where appropriate, to mitigate development impacts on
stomwater quantity and quality downstream.

{Prior to development occurring, a hydrogeoiogical study shall be propared to
delormine groundwater sensitity and vulnerabilty and ensure that there are
no impacts to quality and quantity of groundwater.

4.7443 Natural Heritage Features and Functions

shall be the policy of the City that
‘a. Development shall be accompanied by a strategy that provides for
enhancements or additonal measures of protection between intervening
development and any identiied environmental features, in consultation with
MNRF, CRCA, and approved by the City.

Deca 7076 5


Page 86 of 148

‘Brocivile Employment Lands Secondary Pan |
“tcl Pan Ancient (ra

. Watercourses may be deepened and/or relocated and consolidated with other
watercourses provided thatthe watercourse feature, as well as the function of
the watercourse, is maintained in accordance with the directions established.
in Brockville Employment Lands Environmental Impact Study, October 2016,
‘and Federal, Provincial and Conservation Authority regulations.

cc. Ifany watercourse is to be moved or rehabilitated, its intended that the
‘watercourse wil be reconstructed in a location kentiied in the Brockville
Employment Lands Environmental Impact Study, October 2016 such that the
form and function ofthe intermittent stream is retained or enhanced. The
reconstruction ofthe intermittent stream shall be carefully considered through |
‘a detailed hydrological and hydrogeological assessment, |

47.444 — Land Use & Built Form Policies

It shall be the policy of the City that:
‘Industrial uses shall generally be limited to self-contained uses that produce
andlor store a product where there isa low probabilty of fugitive emissions.
. Open storage shal be screened such that i isnot visible from nearby
residential uses, Highway 401, or any Arterial or Collector Roads,
«. Those uses that create or potentially create extreme environmental stress as
‘a result of air, dour, noise, and/or vibration emissions, andlor the generation |
‘and/or handling of sold or iquid wastes shal only be considered if they meet

the MOE Guidelines and an impact assessment is submitted that is
satisfactory to the City
4d. For uses that exhibit any or all ofthe following characteristics, the City shall |
be satisfied that the proposed use is compatible with any nearby uses:
i. outdoor storage of goods and matorials;
fi, frequent shipment of products and/or materials;
ii. long production hours and shift operations/unusual hours of operation;
iv. large volumes of trafic at off-peak hours; and/or
¥. _lkelinood of nuisances, such as noise, odour, dust, lighting or
vibration.
©. Prior to development or site alteration, the City shall be satisfied that
development wil meet the relevant MOE Guidelines for land use
‘compatibiliy. An appropriate separation distance shall be established
between an industrial land use and any sensitive land use or for ands
abutting Highway 401 or City Roads and enforced through site plan control
‘Specific development requirements may include, but are not limited to
|. ulding orientation, design and setbacks; |
li, landscaping and screening; |
fi, access controls;
|v. road improvements and widenings;
¥. restrictions on the range of permitted uses; and |
Vi. _ restrictions on outside storage.
. Vehicle access shall be oriented such that industry-related trafic Is
discouraged from using local roads where other options may be availabe.

|
Teer 276 7 |
|


Page 87 of 148

‘roche Employment Lands Secandary Pon
‘fc Pan Ameen ra

Loading facilties and service areas shall be located to avoid conflict between
Pedestrian circulation, service vehicles and movement along the public rights~
‘ofway and visibility from roadways.

49. Industrial uses shall be developed and oriented in such a manner to ensure |
protection and screening of active facades and loading areas from all
sensitive land uses,

2. Schedules "1", “3°, and "6" ofthe City of Brockville Official Plan shall be amended in 7
accordance with Schedules “A’, “B',‘C’, attached hereto,
1. Schedule “A" amends Schedule "1 by:
i. Redesignating certain lands from “Urban Reserve Area" fo "Employment Area”
identitied as “Amendment At",
|i, Redesignating certain lands from "Urban Reserve Area to “Parks and Open
‘Space Area” identified as “Amendment A2*.
fi, Redesignating certain lands from “Corridor Commercial Area" to "Employment
‘Area" identified as "Amendment AS”
lv. Redesignating certain lands from *Corridor Commercial Area” to "Parks and
‘Open Space Area" identified as “Amendment Ad’
¥. Reducing the extent of the “Waste Disposal Site Buffer’ from 500m to 30m
identified as "Amendment AS".
Vi. Adding the “Future Employment? overlay on certain lands identified as
“Amendment AG"
vil Redesignating certain lands from "Urban Reserve Area’ to “Neighbourhood
‘Area’ identified as “Amendment A7"
b. Schedule *B" amends Schedule *S" by:

Reducing the extent of the ‘Waste Disposal Site Buffer" from 500m to 30m
identified as "Amendment 81”.
fi, Removing an area identified as “Significant Woodlands" identified as
“Amendment B2.
ii Removing an area identified as “Screening Area for the Cataraqul Region
Conservation Authoriy” ktentifiod as “Amendment 83".
Iv. Identiying certain lands as a “City-Wide Park” identified as “Amendment 84",
‘Schedule °C" amends Schedule "6 by:

Adding one new "Site Spectic Policy Area’ Hentified as “Amendment C1",

Implementation and Interpretation

‘The implementation and interpretation of this Amendment shall be in accordance with the
polices of the City of Brockville Official Plan.

Deco 296 7


BROCKVILLE

ar cli, or pla
Schedule "A"
to official Plan Amendment X
City Structure
a

eer)
(Rrereeenee
a
=a

re

pL 10.88 abe

pL 10.68 960g


Page 91 of 148
‘Schedule “D” to Report 2017-050-05

roche Employment Lands Secondary Plan
Zoning Bye Amro Comprovenive Zoning Bn 0802016 9 amended (ra

‘THE CORPORATION OF THE CITY OF BROCKVILLE.
BY-LAWNO, 20x00

Being a by-law to amend Comprehensive Zoning By-law 050-2014, as amended,
with respect fo the Brockville Employment Lands Secondary Plan in the
City of Brockville

WHEREAS Section 34 of the Planning Act, as amended, permits the councits of
‘municipalities to pass zoning by-laws for prohibiting the Use of land or the erecting,
locating or using of buildings or structures for or except for such purposes as may be
‘et out in the by-law;

AND WHEREAS the Counci of the Corporation of the City of Brockville considers it
desirable to amend Zoning By-law 050-204 to impiomont the policies of Official Plan
‘Amendment No. XXX with respect tothe Brockvile Employment Lands Secondary Plan, ia
NOW THEREFORE the Council of the Corporation of the City of Brockville enacts that |
By-iaw 050-2014, as amended, being the Compreiensive Zoning By-law forthe City of
Brockville, shall be and Is hereby amended as follows:

1. That Section 7.3.2 be amended by adding a new Special Exception Zone as
follows:

"7.3.28. E25 Zone

‘The uses permitted in the E2-5 Zone shall be limited tothe folowing

+ Courier Service

+ Day Nursery (as an accessory use)

+ Industrial Use

+ Industrial Use — Light

+ Medical Laboratory |

+ Businoss and Professional Office

‘+ Outside Storage (as an accessory use), which is subject to adaltional

provisions under the General Provisions (Section 3.0 of By-law 050-

2014)

Research and Development Establishment

‘+ Semi-Permanent Covered Structure (a8 an accessory structure), which

is subject to additional provisions under the General Provisions.

(ection 3.0 of By-law 050-2014)

Testing and Research Laboratory |

Transportation Depot

Transportation Terminal

Warehouse
|
|

‘oon 2


Page 92 of 148

roche Employment Land Secondary Plan
Zoning By Arnot Comprehensive Zain By ow 0502016, 5 serded (ra

‘+ Wholesale Establishment
‘The following special provisions shall apply to the E2-5 Zone:
‘+ Maximum Buikding Height ~ 20 m

‘Allother zone requirements willbe In accordance with the provisions of the E2
Zone,

‘Additional Setbacks - Notwithstanding the Jot and building requirements in Table
7.2(a), where an E2-5 Zone abuts an RU Zone, which is occupied by a
residential use, an addtional setback of 30 m shall apply from the bulling face
oF outside storage, whichever is closer, to the minimum yard setback.

Outside Storage and Outside Working Areas - No outside storage shall be
permitted within 30,0 metres ofthe front lot ine or within 7.5 metres of any side
oF rear lat ine. All outside storage and outside working areas shall be fenced
with a 2.5 motre solid fence so as to screen the outside storage and outside
‘working area from being seen from adjacent properties and/or roads.

Landscaping In aon tothe Planting Stp provisions of Section 3:34, where
an £2.5 Zone i within 30 m from an RU Zone that is occupied by a residential
tse, the enti yard that facing the RU Zone, withthe exception ofthe
‘riveway, shal be landscaped. The frst 3.0 m of yard shall bo landscaped and a
hedgerow of spruce trees and Lombardy Poplar or Nonray Maple tees shall be
planted along the entre length ofthe property ine.

Schedule "A Zone Map 13, of By-law 050-2014, as amended, is further
‘amended by rezoning certain lands from RU to £2-5 as indicated by
“Amendment At" on Schedule “A” to this Bylaw.

‘Schedule “A Zone Map 13, of By-law 050-2014, as amended, is further
‘amended by rezoning certain lands from RU-2 to £2-5 and RU as indicated by
“Amendment A2" on Schedule “A” to this By-law.

4, Schedule “AY Zone Map 13, of By-law 050-2014, as amended, i further
‘amended by rezoning certain lands from RU-A to E2-5 as indicated by
“Amandment A3" on Schedule “A" to this By-law.

5. Schedule “A” Zone Map 13, of By-law 050-2014, as amended, is further
amended by rezoning certain lands from H1-C4 to E2-5 as indicated by
“Amendment Ad" on Schedule “A’ to this By-law.

8. Schedule "A" Zone Map 13, of By-law 050-2014, as amended, is futher
amended by rezoning certain lands from RU-2 and RU-3 to HS-E2-6 as indicated
by “Amendment AS" on Schedule “A" to this By-law.

Dassaba 276 7


Page 98 of 148

Broce Employment Lands Soconday Pan
Zoning By aw Amannant fo Compevensiv Zong Bn 080.214 es andes ra)

7. Schedule “AY Zone Map 13, of By-law 050-2014, as amended, is further
‘amended by rezoning certain lands from RU, RU-2, RU-3, RU-4, and H1-C4 to
EP as indicated by “Amendment AS" on Schedule "A" to this By-law.

8. Allother provisions of By-4aw 050-2014 shall continue to apply.

Road three times and passed
by Council on the XX day of
YXOOOK, XXX
Wayor
Clerk


Page 94 of 148


‘Schedule “E-1” to Report 2017-060-05 Page 95 01 148

CONSEIL DES
ECOLES CApHOLIQUES
DU CENTRE-EST

Le meilleur consell

aparece Service des immobilisations -planitication

42 avi 2017

Monsiour Jonathan Faurschou
City of Brockville

{rue King Quest,

‘CP 5000

Brockville (Ontario) KBV 7AS

Votre référence: 004-0022

Objet: Demande de modification au réglement de zonage
Brockville Employment Lands, Brockvil

Monsieur,

Lo Conseil des écoles catholiques du Centre-Est (CECE) a re la demande
susmentionnée et ne s'y oppose pas.

Espérant quo cas renseignements vous seront utiles, je vous prie dlagréer, Monsieur,
expression de mes sentiments distingués.

KealyyS

‘Karolyh Bois
Planifcatrice en immobilisations,

KBibd

22 Deal 8 est017)
ood Piao tes placa I7OAT2 7

“hoo, roe Labelle, Otawa Ontario) KID TAT TOL (13) 740-2505 00 18002008197

aise. (61940-3728

Page 96 of 148

Jon Faurschou

From: Kapusta Stephen (MTO) <Stephen Kapusta@ontario.ca>

Sent: Thursday, April 20,2017 408 PM

To: Jon Faurschou

Subject: RE: Notice of Statutory Public Meeting for Proposed Amendments to The Oficial Plan
and Zoning By-Law 050-2014 and a New Secondary Plan

‘Attachments: '014-022_009-07BrockvilleEmploymentLandsMinistryCommentsApri202017.paf

Good Afternoon Jon,

Please see the Ministry of Transportation's comments Inthe attached fle, A hard copy of our comments wil follow in
the mail shorty

‘Overal, we do not have much in the way of immediate concerns with the proposed designation ofthese employment
lands. We would however ike to be involved in the Secondary Plan process. !am curious to know the boundaries of
that Secondary Plan

In general, there are some concerns with the Stewart Boulevard interchange if there is to be more trafic added to it in
the future. But we can handle that in time,

Sincerely,

Stephen Kapusta MCIP, RPP
Corridor Management Planner
[Ministry of Transportation - Eastern Region
1355 John Counter Boulevard
Postal Bag 4000

Kingston, ON K7LSA3,

Phone (613)545-4834

Fax (613)540-5106

Toll Free 1(800)267-0295

Stephen. vio.ca

y Of y

Transportation, Corridor
of Ontario Management

From: Jon Faurschou {mailto:faurschou@brockvlle.com]
Sent: Apri 20-17 1:14 PM

To: ciculations@mmm.ca; Jeremy godfrey@bellca; lesample@hotma.com; ryan@ecareerservices.ca;
doughone@hotmail.com; eff desioges@canadapost.ca; Peggy deslaurers@canadapost.ca; mdakin@crca.ca;
Frank dwyer@dfo-mpo.ge-ca; oan.mays@healthunit.or; Wk krishnapillai@hydroone.com;

Steve durant@hydroone.com; Alger, Morgan (MMA/MHO); Kapusta, Stephen (MTO); Beverly disney@mpac.ca;
<dprestey@mhbeplan.com; wwatt@tnpi.com; Est.reg crossing @enbridge-com; Raymond. beshro@en.ca;

Josie. tomei@cpr.ca; Roger.cauley @cdsbeo.on.ca; Sarah. crawford @ucdsb.on.ca; Harty {@zpplan.com;
ifarber@foglers.com; telenis@orhma.com; Bodrug_mark@timhortons.com; Phildawes@ucdsb.on.ca;

Lesley todd @uclg.on.a; Tutak, Alison; Guy lafrance@cogeco.com:;bkalivas@elizabethtownkltley.on.ca;


Page 97 of 148

‘Municiplplanning@enbridge.com; Mark mullan@enbridge.com; bolsk@ecolecatholique.ca;
Pierre:tetrault@cepeo.on.ca; Barbara Kalivas; Wonne Roberts (yrobert@elizabethtown-ktley.on.<a}; Greg Healy; Brent
Caskenette; Scott Fraser; Conal Cosgrove; Peter Raabe; Steve Allen

Ce: Bob Casselman; Sandra MacDonald; Stephanie Dunbar; David Dick; Ghislain Pigeon

Subject: RE: Notice of Statutory Public Meeting for Proposed Amendments to The Offical Pan and Zoning By-Law 050-
2014 and a New Secondary Plan

Good Afternoon,

Please accept this e-mail as a reminder to provide comments on the Brockville Employment Lands,
‘As noted on the attached Notice, comments would be appreciated by 21 April 2017.

Ifyou are unable to meet this date, please provide indication as to when you will be able to provide comment.
you have provided comment, thank you,

Jonathan

$Y. Paursches, MCT, RPP
Planner (Senior)

City of Brockville

P.0. Box 5000

Brockvile, Ontario

keV 7A5:

Fax (613) 498.2799

Tel (13) 342-8772, ex. 4449

From: Jon Faurschou
‘Sent: Friday, April O7, 2017 1:38 PM

Tos ‘drculatons@mmm.ca; Jeremy godtreyibel.ca';leesample@hotmal.com'; tyant@careerservces.ca';
'doughone@hotmal com Jef-desloges@canadapostca' Peggy desiauriers@canadapost.ca; maekin@crca.c';
‘Frank.dwyer@dfo-mpo.ge.ca' "Joan.mays@healthunit. or’ "Vykekshnapilal@hydroone.com

‘Steve durant@hydroone-com'; ‘Morgan alger@ontario.a;'stephen.kapusta@ontaro.a'‘Bevery.lsney@mpac.ca;
‘dpresiey@mhbcpian.com’; Wwvatt@tnpl.com'; Est.regcrossing@enbridge.com'; ‘Raymond. beshrO@Cn.c

‘Sasi tomeiehcp.ca;‘Roger.cauley@cdsbeo.on.ca'; Sarah crawford@ucsb.on.ca' ‘Many f@zpplan.com
‘farbertfoglers.com;'telenis@orhma.con; 'Bodrg_mark@timhortons con "Phi daves@ucisb. onc

‘Lesley todc@uclg.on.ca Tutak, Alison; "Guy lafrance@cogeco. com; "bkalvas @ellzabethtown-kley ona;
"Municpalplanning@enbridge.com; ‘Markamullan@enbridge.com’; "boisktecolecatholique.ca';

‘Pere tetraultibcepeo.on.cal; Barbera Kalivas; Yvonne Roberts (yrobert@elizabethtowt-kiley.on.c); ‘Greg Healy Brent
Caskenette (hcaskenette@brockvile,com); ‘Scott Fraser’ Conal Cosgrove (acasgrowedbrackvil.com)' Peter Raabe;
‘Steve Allen

(Ce: Bob Casselman; Sandra MacDonald; Stephanie Dunbar; David Dick; Ghislain Pigeon

‘Subject: Notice of Statutory Pubic Meeting for Proposed Amendments to The Offidal Plan and Zoning By-Law 050-2014
and a New Secondary Plan

Please accept this e-mall, including attachment, as Notice of Statutory Public Meeting for Proposed Amendments to The
Official Plan and Zoning By-Law 050-2014 and a New Secondary Plan

‘Attached please find Notice for the following applications:
1. _p14-022(050-2014) and 009-07 ~ Zoning By Jaw amendment and Oficial Plan Amendment

‘Additional details and background studles are available atthe following lnk
hitp:/wuw rock «fm21D=987

Please provide your comments by 21 April 2027.


Sekemerdced etary > .
Sere Sees *~ Ontario

J. aurschou — Planner 1
City of Brockville April 20%, 293
‘One King Street Wes, P.O. Box 5000

Brockville, ON K6V 7A5

Attent

3. Faursehow

Re: Brockville Employment Land ~ File: D14-022, D09-07
Miighway 401 Brockville Area

on
‘The Ministry has reviewed the proposed rezoning and oficial plan amendment. Overall the Minttyplasdb vat
have concoms regarding the proposed employment lands designation. Please be avare that part ofthe lands
‘dentitied in the rezoning and official plan amendment fll within the Ministry of Transportation's permit
control area under the Publi Transportation and Highway Improvement Act RS.0. 1990. The only lands that
se within the Ministry's permit control area are the lands that re adjacent o Highway 401. Tho remaining
lands ae not in permit control. Regardless of permit contro, the Ministry would stil ike to be kept aware of
any development proposals inthis development are,

For the lands that are within pemit control, asa condition of any development on those lands, the Ministry will
‘equi a trafic impact study and stormwater study. Some developments may also require noise studies and
illumination plana. Setbacks from Highway 401 are very important and the Ministy willbe looking to protect
fora future 6 andor 8 lane Highway 401. Is therefore recommended that any develope proposing to develop
those lands, consult with the Ministry carly so that we can ensure compliance with our development
requirements

Roganiless of whether any future development is within permit contol, the Ministry would very much like to
‘be notified of any development interest in these employment lands. The Ministry has design forthe
improvement of the Stewart Boulevard interchange with Highway 401, but a this time, there are no plans to
implement those designs. Increases in tafe volumes as a result of development of this area will hve an
‘impact on the Stowart Boulevanl interchange. ‘Therefor, ensuring the Ministry is aware of future development
pressures helps the Ministry better plan for the future

Previous discussions with the City of Brockville indicated an interest in partnering with the Ministry to address
‘the Stewart Boulevard interchange with respect to making it compatible with Long Combination Vehicles
LCVs). Therefor, as part ofthis proposed plan, it may be prudent fo once again revisit those dncussions,
particulary ifthe goal ito attract industy that may need the use of LCVs as part of their goods movement.
Likewise, the Ministry would very much ike tobe involved in the Secondary Plan process that has been,
‘denied with this rezoning and official plan designation, Please keep us notified of any upooming meetings
to discuss these lands.


2

Ifyou have any questions please do not hesitate to contact me at (613)S45-4834.

Sincerely,

Stephon Kapsta MCI, RPP
Condor Minagement Planer

c= Otlawa Area Office
Corridor Management

“Page 99 of 148


KS
Receved
APR 24 2017

(CATARAQUI REGION CONSERVATION AUTHORITY
‘641 Pet Rad, PO. Box 160 Genre, Onaro KOH 150

Phone: (613) 546-4228 Tele (13 ares code 1.877956-CRCA
Fae (619) 547.6474. Ema cea@eatraqrejonon.ca

‘Webstes wlearwatereaaraquica& wvetaruegon on co

LANNING

April 21,2017 File: OP/BR/73/2017
ZBLIBRI722017

Sent by Emait

Jonathan Faursehow

Planner I (Senior)
City of Brockville
P.O. Box 5000
Brockville, ON
K6V7AS

ear Mr. MeGinis:

Re:

Application for Official Plan Amendment D09.07 (City of Brockville)
‘Application for Zoning By-law Amendment D14-022 (City of Brockville)

Brockville Employment Lands

Part Lots 14-17, Con. 1 & 2; Vacant Parcels north of Parkedale Ave., west of Stewart
Bivd. & south of Vieoria Rd.

City of Brockville

Waterbody: Unnamed Tributary & Unevaluated Wetland (Grants Creek Sub-

Watershed)

CRCA staff have reviewed the above-noted Official Plan Amendment and Zoning By-law Amendment
for the Brockville Employment Lands Secondary Plan including the following supporting material

Background Information ~ New Employment Lands, City of Brockville, undated
Report 2016-159-12, City of Brockville, datod December 8, 2016

City of Brockville Employment Lands Secondary Plan Report, WSP/MMM Group, Dec. 2016
Draft Official Plan & Zoning By-law Amendment Schedules, City of Brockville, undated
Environmental Impact Study, Golder Associates, October 2016

Constraints & Opportunities Assessment, Golder Associates, October 29, 2015

‘Report 2017.022-02, City of Brockville, dated February 16,2017

Further to our preliminary review comments, provided to City staffin an email dated January 12,2017,
‘we provide the following comments forthe consideration of Council, City of Brockville staff, and the
City’s consultants.

Proposal
The proposal relates to the adoption of the Brockville Employment Lands Secondary Plan with the
{nent to add a large area of municipally-owned land in the City’s northwest to the Urban Boundary.
Doing so will facilitate the future development ofthe Employment Lands with a variety of uses, mainly
large-scale commercialindustial in nature,


Page 101 of 148

Me. Pausshou (D097 & D14-022— Brockville Employment Lands)
Apil21,2017

‘The purpose ofthe Official Plan Amendment isto amend Section 4.7 and Schedules 1,3, and 6 to
implement the Employment Lands Secondary Plan. The purpose ofthe Zoning By-law Amendment is
to add a new General Employment Special Exception zone (E2-5) to implement the policies ofthe OP
and Secondary Plan and to ultimately permit the proposed uses

Site Description
‘The subject lands encompass multiple parcel in the City’s northwest that are predominantly vacant,
‘The lands, which generally coincide with the City’s Urban Reserve area, are roughly 130 ha in total
and consist of a mixture of open fields, deciduous upland forest, coniferous plantation, low-lying
‘wetland, a former landfil site and a manicured go course. The topography is varied, with rolling
‘elds and forest areas, a central wooded plateau area and adjacent valleylands.

“The ands are located within the Grants Creck subwatershed- a relatively smal catchment ara that
flows into the St Lawrence River via Grants Cre, located spite ofthe subject Inds. Lac
drainage is manly t the soudVsoutwest via overland low and hough two watercourses thet merge
in the approximate cee of property. The merged watercourse then hecomes bury to Gres
Cree. Slr ntermitent watercourse tributaries fod inf th caster branch of te main watercourse
onthe abject ans. A moderately ied nevaunted wetland are seated wii th vale oar he
entesoith ofthe subject lands. The wend is comprised of « mixture of meadow marsh and
treodthicket samp. A large are is curently wooded, forming an extensive, contiguous forest aca
that accounts for «mor pation ofthe Citys woodland. Mach of hse as eon ented i he
Official Pans Significant Woodland and as been asesed by the Environmental Iinpact Study (EIS). .

Discussion
CRCA staff have been involved inthe review of the Secondary Plan process since 2015 and have
‘worked closely with the City and City's consultants regarding matters of interest tothe CRCA.

‘Our main interests inthe proposal are the protection of natural heritage features and areas (significant
‘woodlands, species-a-risk, wetlands, ct.) the protection of surface water features (watercourses), the
avoidance of natural hazards associated with watercourses and wetlands, the protection of drinking
source water and the provision of adequate stormwater management.

[Natural Heritage Features / Areas

‘The scope, methodology, and assessment provided in the FIS are robust and consistent with applicable
guidelines. CRCA staf are satisfied with the study and donot see any need for substantive changes or
revisions at this ime. Sta do not feel a peer-review is warranted. The EIS author's findings and
recommendations provide a satisfactory level of protection forthe core natural features present in the
study area as wel as sufficient setbacksbuffes to avoid disturbance and impacts in the long-term. The
resulting development envelope is appropriate in our opinion.

1. Staff continue to recommend thatthe minor corrections to polic/legislative context references on
page 4 ofthe EIS document (pg. 9 of Appendix B) be made prior to finalization ofthe document.
‘See out January 12,2017 email for spcife revision recommendations.

‘Staff have reviewed the Report to Couneil 2017-022-02 including the discussion from the City’s

consulant MMM Group regarding. the inclasion/designation of the natural heritage areas
recommended for protection (pages 3-4 of the report)

Page ofS

Page 102 of 148

Me. Fars (009.07 & D14-022 Brodie Employment Lands)
‘Ail 21,2017

2. We strongly encourage Council to continue to include these lands within the Secondary Plan and
apply the appropriate Offical Plan designation ("Parks and Open Space”) to protect the City's
‘natural heritage areas and features. Ths recommendation is consistent with “Option 2” as discussed
inthe report by the consultant.

“These lands were recommended for protection by a qualified environmental consultant in accordance
with the 2014 Provincia Policy Statement and the applicable implementation document, the Natural
Heritage Reference Manual (MNRF). Proper designation of these lands is critical to the long-term
protection ofthe City's natural heritage and is consistent withthe intent of the City's Official Plan
policies. Any future proposed changes to the area recommended for protection must be subject to
‘ditional environmental assessment in accordance with the Official Plan and Provincial Policy
Statement.

Further tothe discussion on page $ of Report to Council 2017-022-02, CRCA staff reiterate thatthe
lands rvcommended for protection (ie. lands outside the preliminary design envelope) are not
appropriate for the constructiowinstallation of stormwater management facilities or other related
infrastructure/development.

3. Stormwater management facilites and associated development should be located entirely ouside
‘of the protected natural heritage areas (¢. significant woodlands, wetlands, watercourses) and at
appropriate setbacks as recommended either by the EIS or as required by the CRCA through the
authority's regulation (0. Reg. 148/06) These facilities ae considered developmentste alteration
as defined by the PPS and the CRCA’s O. Reg, 148/06.

4, There appears to be a minor eror on page 37 ofthe Secondary Plan Report in the fest sentence in
the bullet point. “Provincially Signifieant Wetlands” should be “Provincially Significant
‘Woodlands There are no PSWs present inthe study area

Watercourses

In general, we do not have objections with the recommended watercourse modifications identified in
the FIS on the Setbacks and Proposed Development Envelope drawing (Figure 4) and discussed inthe
‘other documents, While these changes are relatively minor and are likely feasible from « hydrologic
and ecological protection perspective itis important to note that there is a regulatory process that must
‘occur (e.g. CRCA permit approval, possible review by MNRF and DFO) before these changes are

liminary discussions on the vabilty/feasibilty of some ofthe proposed changes and
are certainly open to additonal discussion. However, at this point it is our postion that enshrining any
‘ofthe proposed changes in the Secondary Plan and associated Official Plan Amendment and Zoning
‘Amendment would be premature.

5. Currently, the Secondary Plan concept plan, drat Offical Plan Schedule and Zoning map are all
‘based on the development envelope post-watercourse alteration. We suggest that this is not
appropriate without the proper hydrologic and ecologic assessment to support the watercourse
‘modifications and obtain CRCA permit approvals. .

1 may be appropriate to show the proposed alteration in the figues/schedolesfmaps for gener
reference purposes but only if these changes are labeled as “proposed” ina consistent manner.

Page of |
:

Page 103 of 148

Mr. Faurschou (00.07 & DIA-022~ Brockville Employment Lanis)
‘Api 21,2017

‘Currently, the draft zoning amendment schedule (‘A’) includes an EP area that coincides with the
redirected watercourse route forthe tributary atthe northwest of the subject lands. However, the draft
COPA schedule does not.

6. Werecommend that either the change not be shown at all andthe existing watercourse location be
‘shown instead, or, thatthe proposed location be shown and labeled as “proposed watercourse re-
location” consistently in all documents

7. Staf do not support the proposed OPA text found in Section 4.7.44.3 (b) ofthe draft amendment,
This section implies tha multiple changes to watercourses onthe subject lands can be made some
‘of which the CRCA would not support. For example, “consolidating” a watercourse with another
‘one isnot something we would permit. We recommend this section be deleted altogether asi is
‘misleading and could cause confusion

8. Werecommend revisions to the proposed Official Plan Amendment text found in Section 47.443
‘relating to proposed watercourse alterations. Please refer to the attached pf mark-up showing our
recommended text.

‘Stormwater Management

9. Worecommend thatthe Secondary Plan include specific stormwater management targets for future
development to adhere to directly in the Employment Lands Secondary Plan (eg, pages 22-23).

10, We recommend standards to ensure water quality of downstream features is protected and that
flood potential is minimized, Specifically, we recommend quantity control at the postpre-
development runoff level for the 2 through 100-year runoff events and quality control at the
“normal” (Le, 70% TSS removal) level

1, We also strongly encounge use of altemative stormwater techniques such as Low Impact
Development (LID) features ina treatment tran approach to help replicate the natural hydrologic
cycle, promote groundwater recharge and prove improved contaminant removal. Staf are happy
to assist in drafing an applicable policy

‘As noted inthe natural heritage section, above, stormwater management facilities must not be located
‘within the areas recommended for protection and their associated setback areas

‘Source Water Protection

‘The subject lands incinde areas identified as a Highly Vuluerable Aquifer (HVA) and Significant
Groundwater Recharge Area (SGIRA) by the CRCA ina 2011 Assesment Repor forthe Ceara
Source Protetion Are, Iis important © note hat this is not uncommon, as nearly 90 percent ofthe
entire Caaaqui Region i considered tobe within an HVA or SGRA dus to undeying sols and
seology (ea fatured limestone).

‘As mandated by the Clean Water Act, the CRCA’s 2012 Source Protection Plan identifies specific
activities that are considered to be drinking water threats within an HIVA/SGRA. These activities
inclade but are not limited to the handling storage of: large quantities of dense non-aqueous-phase
liquids (DNAPL), commercial fertilizers and pesticides, iqud fuel and road salt It is possible chat
uses involving some of these activities may become established ‘within the Employment Lands
Secondary Plan area

Page 4 0f 5

Page 104 of 148

‘Me, Faurachou (D09.07& DM-422~ Brockville Employment Lande)
‘Apil21,2017

Section 5.5.1 ofthe Source Protection Plan states that proposals (through the Planning Act) involving
«risk activity should incorporate measuresimanagement practices to adequately manage the risk to
_groundvwate associated with the activity

In order to protect sensitive groundwater areas, itis important that proper consideration be given to the
Source Protection Plan during high-level planning processes suchas the adoption of a Secondary Pian
and associated Oficial Plan Amendments.

12, We recommend that appropriate policy references be included in the Secondary Plan and Official
Plan Amendment text. Specifically, we recommend that a reference to the presence of the
HVAVSGRA within the Secondary Pian area be included inthe report document (e.g section 4.4
ofthe Secondary Plan Report) and thatthe Offical Plan include a specific poliey(ies) consistent
‘with Section 5.5.1 ofthe Source Protection Plan.

Recommendation
CCRCA staff are supportive ofthe principle and intent ofthe proposed Employment Lands Secondary
Plan andthe associated Official Plan and Zoning By-law Amendments required to implement the Plan
However, prior to approval, we recommend that the above-noted items (I-12) relating to natural
heritage protection, waterbody protection / natural hazard avoidance, stormwater management,
and source water protection be addressed fo the satisfaction of the CRC?

‘We recommend deferral of applications D09-07 and D14-022 at this time.
Please inform this office in writing of any decisions made by the Cty of Brockville regarding these
applications. Ifyou have aay questions, please contact the undersigned at (613) 546-4228 extension
228, or via e-mail at mdakin‘@erca.ca

Yours rly,

Apa

Michael Dakin
Resource Planner

‘Attachment: Draft OPA Section 4.7443 ~

Page Sof

Page 105 of 148

ata sub-section (BY
links entirety

Boch Employment Lands Secondary Plan

[Revise tor“ any watercourse sto be
tered in ary way, intended that such |Bullt Form Poticios.

“tel Pan Ament (ra)

mendations of the..[ES]..such that. [City that:

all generally be limited to self-contained uses that produce
uct where there is a low probability of fugitive emissions.

mt ibe soteonod such that ene able rm neaby
frcrogeciogral aes and permssre) Highway 401, or any Arterial or Collector Roads,
Se eee oerea) | creato or potentally crete extreme environmental tessa

jour, noise, and/or vibration emissions, and/or the generation
mG of solid or liquid wastes shall only be considered if they meet
the MOE Guidelines and an impact assessment is submited that is
satisfactory to the City
For usos that exhibit any or all ofthe following characteristics, the City shall
be satisfied that the proposed use is compatible with any nearby uses:
‘outdoor storage of goods and materials;
frequent shipment of products andior materials;
Jong production hours and shift operations/unusual hours of operation;
large volumes of trafic at off-peak hours; andior
likelihood of nuisances, such as noise, odour, dust, lighting or
vibration,
Prior to development or site alteration, the City shal be satisfied that
development will meet the relevant MOE Guidelines for land us
‘compatibilty. An appropriate separation distance shall be established
between an industrial land use and any sensitive land use or for ands
abutting Highway 401 of City Roads and enforced through site plan control.
Specific development requirements may include, but are not limited to:
|. building orientation, design and setbacks;
landscaping and screening;
‘access controls;
|v. road improvements and widenings;
restrictions on the range of permitted uses; and
Wi restrictions on outside storage.
Vehicle access shall be oriented such that industry-related traffic Is
discouraged from using local roads where other options may be available,

Dosa 6 é


Schedule “E-2” to Report 2017-050-05

‘Questions forthe Gy of Brodie
‘Questionsasked tobe submitted in writingatthe ApilS, 2017 Open House.

Submitteto:lohnathan Faurschou
Haurschou@brockile.com APR

From Rani Tolton

The ityané the MMM Group use the 2085 Employment Lands Review (EUR) for the
evidence hata new Industrial developmentis URGENTLY needed.

Mr. Bender stated that the Offidal Plan (OP Information was developed during the last
‘economic recession period between 2008 and 2008, Therefore, the information ds not
roflectthe new realities. He also stated that infrmationfor the OP was not updated from
2008/2009 even though the OP came intoeffect in 2012

‘Question. Evidence fo Transportation, warehousing and wholesale trade
‘The2015 ELR uses data from the 2011 census

Port a: “rockville’s transportation, warehousing, and wholesale trade sector represented
‘Jorge proportion oft employment share although lower than the provindalaverage.”
“The 2011 National Household survey (NAS Profile Brockule, CY Ontario, 2011; NHS
Profle, Ontario, 2044)” is ceferenced alongwith Exhibits (pg 13-24 2015 ELR)

| Exhibit Table tile actualy references Statistics Canada, 2015. Whatdata are you really
Using? this 2011 data or 2035 data?

1. one usesthe 2011 NHS Census data available online at

tan? statcan.acca/nhs-enmn/2011/éo-

i = 5 .

i =i A&B 1-All&Custom=Ramp:TABID=1 and
enmn/2011/do-

‘ad /oxotsetails/nagecn?A1=All8B4-ABCode}+358 Dato-CountAGeo1=PRALang-EBSear

Transportationand Warehousing was 43% ofall Industries for Brockville while fr Ontario
was 4.6%
Wholesale tradefor Brochille was 3.4% and fr Ontario 6%.

‘The2015 ELR combines these two industries therefore Transportation, Warehousing, and
‘Wholesale Trade combined for Brockle was 7.7% and for Ontaro this was 9.2%.

os the City consider7.7% "a large proportion ofits employment share”, larger than
healt, soca services, otal trade (greater than 30%)?

Page 208

ced

Page 106 of 148

202007


im

Jn page 17/18 ER and ExhbieGo the 2015 E1R
For Wholesale trade:

Data s shown rom 2001 to 2014 - there was 2 73% increase In Wholesale trade,
From 2001 to 2011 there was an increase of 71%. (percentage notshown but data avalable
‘rom table and can be calealated)

IRisimportantto note that from 2011 to 2014, there was an inereasein Wholesale trade by
onlya.1%,

Using tableand numbers rom Exhibit

2001-2011 72.0%
2001-2006 56.6% figuresEURshows only; 2001-2014-73.01%
2006 -20119.2%7
pou 2014 1.3%

For Transportand Warehousing:

From 2001 to 2014 ~an increase of 15.10% Is shown,
From 2001 to 2011 ~there was an increase of 12.2% (percentagenot shown butcan be
‘aleulated)

tis mportantto note that from 2011 to 2014 ~the increase wes only 2.6%

2001-2011 12.2%
2001-2006 17.1% Figures EUR shows only: 2003-2034 - 15.3%
2006-2011

2ori-2014
2008-2014

1 Does the City believe a 1.1% to 2.6% increasein anyares ie worthy of destroying
‘environmentally sensitvelands? And investingmilions of dollars?

1 Pease explain how the data showsan URGENT need to change the OP?
I The data would have been evident even in 2008/2009 - Why was “urgent” need not
‘declared at thetime the OP was developed and discussed in thepublleconsultation.

process?

|V, Whi are the statistesbaing manipulatedto present “alternate acts"?

Page 2of 8

Page 107 of 148


Part €: Data per Exhibit7 of 2015 F1R

‘The cansushas two separate entities Transportation, warehousingas one entityand
Wholesale tradeasa second industry, The 2035 ELR combines these tomake anew ently:
‘Transportation, warehousing A wholesaletrade,

2001-2005 2.00% Figures used as evidence 2001-2014=27.05%
20062011 0.0%
2011-2018 0.00%

|Lwhy make one entity when the census separates these two industries?

1. How does theahove data support the statement “transportation, warehousing, and
Wholsesale trade sector which gained significantly"?

1, Data used forthe OP was from 2008/2008 as stated by Mr. Bender, side presentations,
and2015 ELR. The “new data" showsa negative deerease fom 2006 onwards. Thedata
available in 2008/2009 would have shown 22.08% increase from 2001-2006 which sweater
than the2.05% beingused as evidence, Therefore, why was the urgent" need not
recognizedin the OF?

PartD.Avallable Land pg. 23 and Exhibit 142015 EUR

“With respect to the employment lands spplyand demand balance in competing
Jurisdiction, tt was noted that Brockile had relatively limited amount of designated
‘supply ovalable Exhibit 1 (Statistics Canada, 2015; Watson & Associates, 2015; MMM
Group Limited 2014)"

| Whats the purpose of Exhibit 237

| Whichlty/townshiphas the least and avaliable per capita? Kingston hasthe least
amountoflandavalableat0.21% per eapita not Brock. Therefore, the presentation of
the data again beingused to lend the wrong perception. 1fBrockile sn such dire straits
Incogardst land shortages, why Is the manipulation of data necessary?

Page 3of 8

Page 108 of 148


‘Question2. Phase 1 and Phase? are to be developed fst

‘Mr. Bender stated atthe Open House that Phase 4 and were not going tobe developed
fist asthe ity didnot own these lands but ld own Phase 3 and Phase? lands.

Development Phase & 5 makes more senseas these landsaredloser to the 401 and
‘there would be less trucks going through the Cty.

|. Whydld the Cty notbuy Phase & 5 fst?
1. There are stil many hurdles to go through before Phase & 2can be functional, fatal,
“The lagoons stil need tobe separated, 37 ares of land must stil be allocated for the
Golden: Winged Warbler habitat, and buttemut rees need tobe protected, to mention only
«few of the hues,

“Therefore why isthe Ctyso determineito spend so much money when in a “erunch”
sitvationto continueon along lengthy, and useless path especllywhen other strateples
are possible?

{I Whyare the developmentalcosts of Phase 3 not included in the overall discussion?

1. [sit the ntentionofthe City to develop Phase’ ors Phase 31no longer part ofthe city’s
plansfor development?

‘Questions: Hazards

Slide 4 December 2016 cityof Brochill Draft Secondary Pan Report

Irstates:

“Featuresor perhaps HAZARDS are:

= Ruraresidential properties

= Golf course

“The city’s former waste disposelsite

~Avarkety of small1otresidentia!parcelsand vacant lands

Trans Norther Pipeline

+ Substantial vegetation (trees/shrub)”

|. Why are these hazardsnotidentifidin the 2015 ELR?

I. As the Trans Northern Pipeline aware ofthe Clt/plans?Has the City contacted Trans
NortherPipeline regarding mitigation of thisimportanthszard?

Page bof 8

Page 109 of 148


‘Questions, Other Supporting Studies

The Ctyemployed Golder Assodates to conducts preliminary report titled "Constraints
‘and Opportunies Assessment to Support Secondary Planning Related to. Large
Development Parcelin Brockville, Ontario” dated October29, 2015 Project No. 1536620,

|. Why was the public denied access to this report eventhough it was reference inthe
Golder Environment impact Study of October 2016?

1. Why was a formal Freedom of information request required to obtain thisreport?

IL Since the city commissioned thisreport, what publieprocedures were taken to obtain,
approval for funding thisreport? Did It go through Cound or another carvmitte? 20,
please provide therecords? if not, diego through in anin Camera meeting? Hes, then
winy?

|v. Thisreporthas been avalablesince2015. Why were councillors surprised atthe
December 13, 016 Counciimeetingand visibly aghast at havingspent money buyinglands
that could not be used?

V. Were the Councilors madeawareof the above referenced studyand fo, when?

‘Question5. Transparency regarding the Industral developmant inthe North-West
uadrantof the Cty

‘The mayor and the previous economicdevelopment person have publicly stated on
February7, 2017 that “We started the process looking atthe industrial park priorto Giant
Tiger approachingus.” Records show that the Clty was serious about the industrial
‘developments early as 2011/2012 by hiring Golder Associates produce report forthe
tse of these lands, dated March 9, 2012. There are also numberof emallsilustratingthe
‘it’s determinationin proceeding with this development

|. Why did the city tr to blind side the citizens from 2012/2012 onwards when the inkon
the OP was barely dry?

I. Wherein the publicrecords ate the discussions andthe debates aboutthe industrial
development?

|. Why are there no discussions offundingfor the Industrialdevelopment nthe public
forum? The councilors discussad nauseam about 3tolletsand 2 urinals for the refighters
ata costofless than $5,000.00 but $1,800 00.00 gets passed atthe budget meeting
‘withouteven a slight purr. Whyis that? Inregards tothe industrial development, why have
‘the citizens of Brodkule been lacked outof the conversation from the stat regardingthe
direction they wish theirCityto proosed?

Page Sof 8

Page 110 of 148

|


Page 111 of 148

‘Question 6, Pg. 202015 618
“The population tsoging, in concert witha general out-migration ofyounger-age cohorts”

“This tend represents one of the risks to Brochill’s economy that could be mitigated by
{leveraging its strengths and ensuring that the employment ond supply sufficient to
attract new business investment. Tht wil in turn, ereatejobsand mitigate out-
‘migration of youngerage cohorts.”

Pg. 23 LR “With respect to education, Brockulle has higher proportion of graduates
‘with a High Schoo! Certificate or Equivalent, apprenticeship Trades Cetifiate or .
Diploma and College, CEGEP or Other Non- University Certifieate or Diploma than the
provincial average (Exbibit 2"

|. Does the City believe that young people especially with an education willstayn Bracke |
totakeajobin awarehouse? |

1 Does the ity thinka warehouse job wll decrease out-migration of younger-agecoherts?
UIs it possible that pechapsthe older populatonis elated to retired persons from urban

areas such as GTA, Ottawa, and Montreal movingto a less urban area and thusincreasing
the numberof older residents? Hasthisbeen investigated further?

Pope 6 oF 8


Page 112 of 148

Question’, Part A Projection of bata

|. Exhibit 26 shows projected data for 2015 from 2014 data, Exhibit 13 shows SPI population
projections were incorrect for 2016. Therefore, should this not send outred flags that ther
projections for2018, 2016 and onwards areincorect?

1. Rogardles, Exhibit 16ilustratesdediningemployment projections withinthe
‘employment areas rom 2031 to 2042, Verbal and nancial projections or the North-west
‘quadrantindustrialdevelopmentto be fullfunctional have been mad for 6-10 yearsinto
the future,

art
Bshibit30, Confirmed Near Term Development. p47 2015 EUR

“Development proposals for these parcels hve advanced tothe polntwhere estimated i
employment and use information areavollabe. Key information regarding these four
parcels summarized in xhlbie 30."

|. Whatare the four parcels of lands referred to in Exhibit 302

1. Whatis the status ofthe projection ofpproximately 200 jobs over 3 years?

1. Is thisindustial developmentrealiya viable possibilty? Ithasalready been S years rom
2012 andthere are still any hurdlesto conquer, Would tnotbe prudent tospend tine,

‘money andenergyon more viable options? Sometimesitis better to say, we made a
mistake and cut the taxpayer'slosses at? milion dllasinstead of4+ milion dollars

Page 70f 8


Page 113 of 148

‘Question8. Further Studies

Golder Associates Report ne 3, 2016, Project No, 1650593

* Hoover, ono parameter (vin chloride), whichis tho only VOC that has baon messured
inove theaboratry detection linits neo 2010, is occasonaly ata concentration that
exceeds the non potable groundwater standard or mewn and ne textured soils (s pr Sol,
round Water and Sediment Standards fr Use Unde Part XV. ofthe Evronmental
Protection Act, MOE, 201). Therefor, prior to development ofthe lands tha abut the astern
boundary of the CAZ, its recommenced that soll and groundwater be evaluated In accordance
ith ©.Reg 16404 any soll or grouncwater parameters are found to excoed tho applicable
_generlestandars,property-spocific standard could be develop, In accordance with O.Reg.
18304, n order support fond development.”

‘At ho opon house the question was asked“ the cyl aiming for crtiedlan, does the
grouneater not ned fo be dave trt? The response from Mr, Bender was something to the
slfect of "es, ono would assume, For certified devlooment parca, the Cty should doi

|. Hav soll and grundter tutes been compet? Ina, wy nat? It would seem praent o do
these studs before adtonal meres are spent. When's expectdtat hese studs wlbe
competed?

2015 FAR pe 55

“Should those projets advance, itl recommended thatthe Cty undertake an Economic
Impact Stuy that would:

9) Retin tho overall baseline residents ancl non-rsidetl ands needs in tho Citys
1) Knitty tho splat economic benoit; anc
«© Redfin th City’s needs for community and nelghbourncod services.”

1.When wil he Cy be undertaking an Econaml inact Study 28 eungestd bythe C's
constants?

Page Bot 8


Page 114 of 148

From: AB RToton o
Sent: Mondsy, April 24,2017 1:09 AM prcevel

To: Jon Faursehou
‘Subject: Questions APR 24 2017
Atachments: Questions fr the City of Brochille 2 pa

Hello on:

1 realize the date April 21, 2017 has passed. However, ifone considers that there was no time limit given for
‘Apuil 21 and one could potentially have placed this inthe box outside the City.

‘Anyway, I would appreciate if these questions could be considered
‘Thank You
Rani


Page 115 of 148

Ss
‘Questions for the Cty of Brodkille -2 *
sestions for the Cy of Brock peg
‘Questionsaskedto be submited in writingat the April's, 2017 Open House. Aer 8
Submitted to Johnathan Faurschou PL.
ifaurschousbrocile.com
From Rani Tolton 7

1. In ScheduleB" toReport 2016-159-12, page 4, under Basis, 2™ paragrogh

“This Amendment also intends to bring residuatresidentallands into the City’s Urbon
‘boundary thereby creating @ more contiguous land use structure.”

|. whatdoesit mean by “residualresidentialtonds"?

1, Which homesare affected by these “residual residential lands"? Please designate these
“esidualresidentiallands* ona map.

Ln whatways will incorporating these “residual esidentil lands" into the city’s Urban
boundary fect the homeowners that may ive on these “esidualresdentillands"?

2, On the City website ht/w.broculle. com/index cfm71D-987, under Background

Information.
“Over the course ofthe nxt fow years, the iy of Broculle was appracched by several
‘businesses looking to develop large-lot employment wses. Upon examining potential locations,
‘no lands were shovel ready andthe Cty lost the opportunties.”

|. What were the businesses tht approached the Cy orat east the type of businesses?
l.when did these businesses approsch the Cy of Brockvile?

IHL. How much nnd were they requesting to setup thelr businesses?

1V. Doce the numberof businesses in number | ao include the Tomlinson Asphak plant and
Giant Teer?

Page 10f2

oo


ubrockille.comindex.cfD=987, under Background

““Botwoon 2008 and 2012, tho City undertook the process to prepare a now
Official Plan. As part ofthis process, the City prepared a numbor of
‘background roports. One of the reports included @ Growth Analysis that
Identified how many people and jobs were going to be located in the City over
the next 20 years.

LUpon completion of the Growth Analysis, the City then determined the amount ofland
‘that would be needed to accommadto the addtional people/jobs. pon completion of
the land needs work, Itwas determined thatthe City's current Urban Area was sutfilent
‘to accommodate growth forthe next 20 years. The land that was not needed to
accommodate growth over the next 20 years was Klentiied as an “Urban Reserve”.
(Schedules to the Official Plan fr the Cy of Broce)”

1 tf between the years 2008 and 2012, it was determined thatland was not needed to
accommadate growth over themext 20 years

Why thendld the iy, about2011, start the process olingin using the North West
‘Quadrant for Industrlal Development and keop thisfact hidden until 2015?

4.0n the City website httpv/Aywa.brockilecom/Index.cfm2ID=987, under Background
Information-New EmploymentLands

“The Recommendations ofthe Roport further emphasized th
The North West Urban Reserve Area represents a logical aree for further
investigation”

[tthe Open House of Api'6, 2017. The response from Me. Bender to examining other
‘21088 forindusty, or other comparisons was always tothe effect of:

“this was what thoy were asked todo
|. How can this type of direction and mandate be considered to “representa logical area
{orfurtor investigation’? This lke the 2015 Employment Lands Reviw manipustes

stalistics(alemata facts) o ty to demonstrate wiat the clnt (he City) wants the
‘consultants to report. How can ths be considered an unbiased report?

5. MMM Group was going te participate in a teleconference wth MMAH stain Kingston
{o discuss the revow of the Oficial Plan sometime after June 18, 2015,

|. Did ths tleconference take place?
11. What was the result ofthis teleconference’? Ploase share the rosults of tis
teleconference epecticly any suggestions or recommendations that MMAH made at
this teleconference or upon futher communication with MMA.

Page 20f2

Page 116 of 148


Page 117 of 148

*
Revved
PR 06 2017
PLANNING

City of Brockville
Employment Lands

April 5, 2017
Public Open House
Comment Sheet

Further ta the discussion tis evening, do you have any cornmens or iesues regarding the
proposed Secondary Plan?
Zhan} ade

Tegee el, necomab ction, Ns Jade
Tevet ROL apts Re We Ty at T EO
ea See

~ -
i

NM ER GeE SS TEL OMG AY

(ig Ein es ee page =

The eho} segue 5 ea

= -
math pe hz gz 1S ate
eras ana meat

Pease provide your name, address, postal code, and email available) so that we oan notify
you of upcoming events:

Please complete and place inthe bax provided, or send to:

Jonathan Fourechou, MCI, RPP
Planner!

Jauochouebrocte com
(613) 342872, e 4440,

Page 118 of 148

‘april 29, 2017
‘Questions forthe City of Brock, submitted to Jonathan Faurschou by ema
Jfautschovebreckville.com

From Patti Whyte

Dear Mr. Faursthou,

‘As advised at the City's “open house" meeting of Apri, please find below my questions in wing,
\with regard tothe proposed employment lands development, roning by-law amendments offical plan,
new secondary plan |

To st the tone for some of my Inquiis, | wish to advise you, for the public record, that | contacted the
Cty of Brockvile Planning Department in Saptember 2014 PRIOR to purchasing my home|

> 2k about the status ofthe land) was ASSURED bythe Panning Benatar
OF Cy ht hse ITT ee Weve’ nb Ol Pn a a 0 be
considered for development unt ATLEAST 2031 atte earliest, and even then unllely. Neighbours and
realtors were not aware of the Ct’ plans tochnge this status. Know that | would not have purchased

this home had | been advised otherwise and now must seek mitigation of possible (probable) impacts
because ofthe City of Broce’ lack of transparency

‘Question #1 ~ Mitigation of Impacts
Since learning of the proposed Industrial development, cizens of Brockville have been seeking
assurance ffom the City that safeguards will be in place in any considerations for proposed Industral
development, including for the safely of well water supply and septic systems, at well as ather
environmental concerns such as nose ight pollution, septic issues, noxious chemicals, endangered end
species at ris, ete

As one| Jby any such development, the safety, quality and
‘quantity of my water supply as well asthe integriy of my well structure and septic sytem are huge |

‘An answer to the following questions is required and requested before any development, basting,
‘oadwork ete. proceeds, so that residents can protect themselves and ensure appropriate consideration
and documentation, thatthe Cly might require as proof, should there be negate impact.

What will be the Cty’s role in ensuring the safety of my well water supply should tbe Impacted
during any phase of the development of these lands? le. who wil be responsible for ensuring the
safety of my well water supply during any and all phases of development of the lands such as the
Cy Is proposing? (from Infrastructure, road work, construction, blasting, dust / debris impact,
though the actual construction phase of specific industry/busines, through to whatever actual
businessindustry i permitted to operate on the lands as per Cty decisions.)

Paget of 6

Page 119 of 148

|. What spectc mtigatios wil the city offer should there be impact on structure of my well (and
septic) and/or quantity/qualty of my well water? (For example, pay for anew wel, orto replace
casings, ruptured pipes, et, replace with cty water supply at no cos, provide bolted water and
Well testing during phase unt long-term impact can be determined, etc)

|W, What wl the Cy consider tobe “Impact” and what wil the Cty require as proof of “mpact’?

‘Question #2 - "Residual Residences”
‘The City recently shared secondary plan and zoning bylaw ampendments which indicate the intention to |
bring “residual residences” into the urban roserve zoning designation, Could you please provide the
following information: |
|. How many residual residences are there?
Where ae they?
Ti. How have people been notified?
Iv. What might the impacts of rezoning be on these residents/resdences, in the short-term and the
longer-term?

‘Question #3 Stewart Boulevard Road Widening
Mr. Bender, ina conversation with the Veensta', stated that Mr. Veensra(Sr.2) has been awarded a
City contract for road widening of Stewart Boulevard

‘Where on Stewart Siva specficlly will this road work take place?

What specifically wil this work ental?

How wil resdonts/businesses that currently elt along the frontage be impacted?

Have any residents or businesses that might be Impacted been notified?

What are the planned dates for commencing, and or completing the work?

Was the contract tendered?

‘What is the value ofthe contract?

‘Question #4 ~Traffie study
Part A: Dated and Flawed
‘The traf study is dated and flawed - the data relates tothe road running in an incorrect direction and
Is dated 2012. The Highway 29 corridor traffic has increased visbly since | moved into my home
and many Brocklle residents comment upon how busy Hwy 29 has
become as they travel Into and out ofthis City. Is also difficult to ext and enter Vitoria Road onto
Stewart Boulevard. | am repeatedly passed by both cars and transports while waiting to tuen fom
Stewart onto Victoria ~ in ether direction - they do not stop, do not stow down and there is no passing
lane. Walking the road is often impacted by drivers traveling well above the posted speed lint of 40,
smh taking Vietora Rd. 35 2short cut through to Lyn.
|. Whats the rationale that this 2012 study is sufficient for decision making purposes with regard
to the needs of Brochille and traffic along the Stewart Boulevard to the 401 corridor in 2047,
particulary given te fact that tafe s bound to Increase with proposed development?

Page? of 6

Page 120 of 148

i. Does the Chy plan to undertake 2 more current trafic study, using current data to better
‘determine the needs should the proposed Industral development come to fruition? Ifyes, what
will this involve? If no, why not?

fi, The impact of increased trafic will go beyond the proposed Laurier Bhd, entrance to and frm
the 401. How does the Cy intend to ensure the safety of those living on Victoria Road when i
becomes even more dangerous turnin onto this road? Road Widening to provide a designated
Passing lane? Traffic lights? Please advise regarding planned mitigation,

Part: Studs regarding Impact of Transport Trafic
The City continues to propose the possibilty ofa transportation warehouse/ transfer station (auch as

{he Giant Tiger facityn Johnstown) on the ‘proposed Industrial development lands.
|. In preparing forthe likelihood of such use, even such a business were to be permitted, has the
City undertaken studies on the impact to residents of Brockvile due specfcaly to the

anticipated_numbers_of wansports and long. combination vehicle transports that wil,
{traveling into and out of the City to the ‘proposed industrial development”?

ii, Has the Cy undertaken any comparative studies (with other City’s with simiar transportation
waretiouses/businesses, Induding those entering and exiting our existing north end industrial
‘parks}) to estimate what the #5 of vehicles would likely be and applied this information to a
study of antcpated traffic pattems in and out of our Cy on and off the 40% as wel as through
Hwy 29?

“To these questions above:
If es, please share the data/studes/consderatons.

If no, please provide your rationale and comments about how the Cly can move forward with
appropriate decisions about the types of industry business to be permitted or the necessary
Infrastructure and traffic controls that willbe needed, keeping pubic safety atthe forefront of
ts considerations.

Part C-Public Safety

The incidence of transport truck mishaps, spills and accidents sa growing realy, Its recognized that
the corridor trom Kingston through to Prescott / Johnstown has seen numerous accidents involving
‘transports over recent years asthe transpor traffic increases,

| Does the city have an updated Emergency Plan in place for dealing withthe Increased likelihood
‘of acide, mishap / chemical spl et. within of near the City limits?

| The Gty of Brockville has seen a transport truck lp over onto its side as texted the 401 into
‘ur Gy, This transport could very well have been moving dangerous chemical andthe impact
‘could have been great. How does the Gy Intend to address the ral safety risks to residents
shoulda new Industrial corridor attract the transport trucks that are moving dangerous goods?
{such as was recently the case on the 401 near Mallorytown with a toxic spill requiring
environmental remediation and impacting many people.)

Page 3 of 6


Page 121 of 148

li, Has the Cty considered the resulting impact on alr qual and safety to residents of Brockville
through large industrial use and/or increased transportation traffic? (Studles reflect that
increased fumes from increased transport truck vac impact health)

i. Has the Clty developed any ertera for determining, approving, and/or tinting the types of
‘cargo that will be permitted to travel ito and out of Brockile andor be stored Inthe location
Of ths “proposed industrial development’ to minimize risk t residents shoulda transportation
warehouse (or other industry) be permitted? (Le. toxic chemicals)

_Quostion #5 - Golden Winged Warbler and Habitat Designation Status

‘The City purchased approximately 40 acres of land that was designated as habitat forthe Golden
winged Warbler which was restricted from any development due to a pre-existing lease between the
landowner and the Soler Farm to provide habitat for this species at risk ientiied during construction of
the solar farm. This warbler must be protected and provided with suitable habitat of appropriate sie.
‘The Cy inital advertised In the Recorder and Times that they were legally moving to exoropriate the
‘and, and then somehow were apparently able to purchase it without expropriation, and also somehow
‘managed to remove the 25 year habitat lease and its restrictions from the land. The Solar Farm had to
fing other land for the warble, subsequently entering into a new lease, now directly with the City of
Brockville, within the area ofthe proposed Industrial park development

|. What step dé the Cty need to take to remove the origina! habitat lease?

|i. How were the new lands thatthe City i leasing to the Soar Farm selected, who has ensured
‘hey are sutable and appropriate to the species survival and what were the criteria used?

Tl, Has the new habitat been formally registered or designated (Le. through MOECC, MNR) by
elther the soar farm or the City?

v. What are the plans to ensure the warbers’ movement tothe new habitats successful and who
is responsible fortis?

\What are the plans to mitigate impact from surrounding proposed) industrial development on
the species and their proposed new habitat?

Vi. What are the plans fr monitoring this, both in the short term and the fong term, and whois
responsible for this?

‘Question #6; Criteria for Selecting Industry/Businesses for Brockville
Any Industry at any cost, without conskeration and mitigation of impact, whether on a few or on many,
Isnot acceptable.
| What ertria wil the Chy of Brockville use to ensure that businesses or industries that might
‘express interest in Brockileae suitable to the location and residents of Brockvile?

i, What guideines are in place upon which to base your decisions about what Is, or is nat
acceptable for Broclle?

Question #7: Using/Promoting Available Serviced Land?

Page 4 of


Page 122 of 148

Drive around Brockville, n particular the areas of existing business parks, as weil as Central Avenue
West, and you will see many signs of land avaliable, ot empty storefronts avaliable, for lease oF
purchase, serviced and unserviced, large parcels and small, owned by the Cy or privately, te difficult |
to determine fom the City’s website how much lan is actualy available in Brockvil,2s the maps are
‘ld and there is a disclaimer indleating the information may not be accurate,
|. How much serviced industrial land fs presently avalable in Brockvile overall? And land zoned
‘business/commercia? (Pease offer a breakdown based on location and sz, largest to smallest
‘of those S acres or more. |

1. How much unservced industrial ands presently avallable in roche cverall? And land zoned

business/commecia?
(Please offer a breakdown based on location and ste, largest to smallest of those 3 acres oF

more}.

MM. 1s Central Avenue Westland (previously proposed as location for asphalt plant stil considered
4s avalable industrial ands? Ifyes, ow much lan is there? Hf not, why not?

Iv. The old Black & Decker building on Central Avenue West Is also avalabe - advertising for 9
business to eas lt. Is this belng considered asa location for Industral use and ifnot, why not?

Is the Cty of Brockile working with Ezabethtown to bring business to a large parcel of land
already appropriately zoned and avalabe, as referenced on City Website as exceeding 100
Acres, with 20 acres owned by the City and the remainder by Elizabethtown, and I 0, what Is
‘specially being undertaken? Hf no, why not?

Wi. Whatis the Cy of Brockvile doing to bring business and industry to the vacant lands and empty
storefronts and warehouses that are already avallabe n our Cty, whether owned by the City of
prhately? What isthe total number of vacant buldings, storefronts, warehouses and ther
business/industrial spaces in Brockville?

Question #8 - Closing Question and Remark

\Why isthe Clty of Brockile pushing to rezone and develop a new industrial area in Brockville, with the
Intent to bring the large Industrial player or players, when this area is not suitable for such large-scale
development? It is surrounded by residences, has a closed lanl, Impacted by environmentally
Protected lands, endangered species, and species at risk, and travel would be through a high traffic
‘ovridor. Aditionaly, ay development ofthis land and necessary infrastructure wil continue to be at a
huge cost to Brochile taxpayers

‘The north end industrial parks were wel planned and designed — with access to the 401 and with large
freenspaces, including the memorial park fields) and smaller business “ulfery’ between industry /
warehouses and residential areas, serving to minimize impacts such as traf, noise, light polation,
species at rick, ete

‘large industry or business development as proposed for the northwest quadrant of Brockville fs NOT
suitable nor has this undertaking been well planned. The impacte that Indisril zoning and
evelopment wil be sure to have on residences (as well as the nearby environmentally protected
ands) wil stil require mitigation (well water quality and quantity, safety, dust, light, nolse, ale

Page 5 of


Page 123 of 148

pollution, trafic, green space/butfers/fencing/landscaping, et.) The impacts on residents traveling
along Stewart Blvd, both to and fram work at well as Into and out of Brockie will also become a
areater challenge

‘This proposed industrial development is NOT reflective af the vision of Brocivile expressed by residents
uring the development ofthe City's Offa Plan. At what point do the Citizens of rocks havea real
voice, through true consultation and collaboration such as was undertaken in developing the Offical
Plan? Taxpayers’ dollars would be better spent focussing efforts on bringing addtional small vibrant
businesses more suited to our community to tis area and filing existing vacant spaces with those most
"kel to spark interest in future growth ~ entrepreneurs would add tothe cuture ~ and economy = of
Broce far more than a industrial giant.

Thank you forthe opportuity to respond, and for your consideration,

Sincerely,

Patti Whyte

Page 6 of

Page 124 of 148

Jon Faurchou

io fo ans)

David Dik
RE: wo Concerns ~ Advertising and Signage elated to public meetings and
‘Amendments to Official Plan / Zoning Bylew / New Secondary Plan

Good Aftemoon Me, Whyte,

‘Thank you for your opinion on the steps taken in regard to providing Notification for the upcoming Statutory
Public Meeting under the Ptanning Act, as it pertains tothe Brockville Employment Lands,

Notation is legislated under Ontario Regulation 543/08 for Official Plan Amendment
(Citos:/mw ontario, ca/laws/requiation/080543 ) and under Ontario Regulation 545/08 for Zoning By-laws,
(hits: imme ontaro,ca/laws/reauiation/060543 ) under the Planning Act an excerpt is provided below:

(3) Notice shall be given n the manner described inthe following subsections of this section:
1. Subsection (2) 0 (7). .
2. Subsection (3)
3, Subsection @)
4 Subsection (11) or (12). 0. Reg. 543/06, s.3(3)."

“(0 Note shall be given,
(@ by personal service or ordinary mal, fo every owner of land within 120 metres ofthe subject lan,
subject to subsections (5) and (6); and
() by posting a notice, clearly visible and legible from a public highway or other place fo which the
‘Public has access, at every separately assessed property within rhe subject land or, if posting on the
property is impractical, ata nearby location chosen by the clerk ofthe municipality or the secretary-
treasurer ofthe planning board. O. Reg. 543/06, s. 3 (4)." :
Letters were sent to every owner of land within 120 metres ofthe subject land,
E-mals were sent when no address was provided.
Letters were hand delivered when no email was provided.

Five standard signs have been erected on streets as follows:

+ Vitoria Avenue (1);
+ Chelsea Street (1);
+ Laurier Boulevard (1); and
‘+ Parkedale Avenue (2)

"(7 Notice shall be given by publishing a notice n a newspaper that, in the opinion of the clerk ofthe
‘municipality or the secretar-treasurer of the planning board, is of sufficiently general circulation in the area to
‘hich the proposed offical plan or plan amendmen! would apply that it would give the public reasonable notice
ofthe public meeting or open house, as the case may be. O. Reg. 543/06, . 3 (2).

Nolice was placed in the Recorder and Times Newspaper on Thursday 06 Apall 2017.


Page 125 of 148

The Planning Department has issued notice in accordance with Subsection 4) aid 7) n an effort to
reach allarger audience.

(8) Bvery person and public body that has given the clerk of the munlelpalty or the secretary-treasurer ofthe
planning board a writen request fora notice to which this section applies (including the person's or public
body's address, fax number or email address) shall be given ntice by personal service, ordinary mail fax or
‘email. O. Reg. 543/06, . 3 (8); O. Reg. 180/16, =. 1 (2).”

Notice was sent as per Clause 8,

(2) Notice shall be given, by personal service, ordinary mail, fc or email to all the following persons andl
public bodies, except those who have notified the clerk ofthe municipality or the secretary-treasurer ofthe
‘Planning board that they do not wish to receive notice:”

Notice was sent as per Clause 8.
Inadditon:

‘+ An announcement was made and discussed briefly atthe Open House held on 05 April 2017,

* Aposter has been placed on the Front window of City Hall ang at the entrance to the Planning
Department offices.

‘+ "Notice has been posted on the City website as follows: Htp:/wmv.brackvile.comvindex cfm ?1D=5

+ Notice has been requested to be posted on the City website In the ‘News" section,

‘The matter of additional nofiication has been discussed withthe Acting Director of Planning, Mr. David Dick
[No addtional advertising is contemplated as the requirements under the Planning Act have been met and
exceeded

Jonathan

9. Fassschoe, MCT. REP
Pionner | (Senior)

ty of Brockvile

P.O, Box 8000

Brockvile, Ontario

keV 7AS

(613) 408.2703

Tel (613) 342-8772, et 4449

Sent: Monday, ApH 10,2017 8:35 PM
‘To: Jon Faurschou Andrew Mains,

Ce: Lorraine Baan!

‘Subject: wo Concerns - Advertising and Signage related to public mectings and Amendments fo Offical Plan / Zoning

Bylaw / New Secondary lan
‘ap 10,2017

ese Me, auch,

Re: Posed Note Sigs re Proposed Anndient othe Otic Pana Zing By-Law 050-2016 anda Now Secondary Plan


Page 126 of 148

or te Pale Reco

1, Meting Notations are NOT Suet:

Following he pie’ open hows of Ap 5,207 the ns of sch having rected pi sere th lel Recorder nt
‘Timer on Mach, 2017, none on cl radian fr, the oie seat ipo Stasory Public esting” of May 2nd, asin nly
adverse in thecal wenspape oa Al 6,307, whlch yo ted would be th eal averomen slifing reds ef Broce of is
‘important meting ar wing fo expres ease tt i doing the br, ean wo oo resents of Brcko
roc digits iene reat verze. As a comma rember exressed ome ong ag, end qe "Nol eveyone aks the
pe

‘You indeed athe Api 5 open usta the Cy ao pos the nice on ts weston ts oor. 1 dr know many Broskvile
resides wo elev the Cy would tbe mor vol shoulda meg be inp ores nr woul th eral pble go ooking
fersach unknown ects {dont bles te Ciy of Brock doing enough tobe considered wanspte! abou is bins eck
Inpro tonto Drockl resides.

‘The developon ofthe Ol an of 2012 wa ety proces ths, too, should a proces tat involves rock residents souls
there be Yel of the vison far rok tha ws pwd pars ofthe 2012 Official Plan. The Cy owe itt the eset of

Bret deo ter -anddo more in his ea.

2, coment of Signer Zing Bylaw Amendent

Me Faria tee oe, a ol safle. Reset of Victoria Road ono othe sia tat fs te vest cat be ee while
‘unvelig ince drecton unless one wee a lao eps. cuca be sea om Sema nia. A second sg, placed
ate ded ead of Laurie ind tsi Home Hardyare en bret be sen fo the nerrton. Farr, heres NO SION indie hat
‘ty lands tsi Home Hardwear ne goeral oe fhe rose bushes park se ner eview wih eget alg Yes, pbs
‘isis becaum he. Walker oe tend ety om od fantags Lea apn fx he Cy. owers,| proponents ema
‘board erected othe ts that thse who tae his ots on a clly Dass re ade ef the CY plans or opened Oy ln
sendmail me carn opt thon.

am requesting fart aton bythe City with eq the ah, nd preci your prompt eps my cones, ven hat he
Cys meting May 204 sd the tine to rsp the sdverseaet sou aoe wid dos but be unable aen he etg, of
‘Apll2istis tight and tt apeoching.

Sleeey,


Page 127 of 148

SUBMISSION to PUBLIC MEETING

2017-04-21

‘SUBMISSION to PUBLIC MEETING [ May 2, 2017]
re, PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE OFFICIAL PLAN and
‘a NEW SECONDARY PLAN for the “EMPLOYMENT LANDS"

PURPOSE of this SUBMISSION:

‘© To review and comment on the "Traffic impact Study” (and the related "Technical Memorandum
Respecting Highway 401 and Stewart Blvd. Interchange") of the Proposed Amendments to the
Official Pian,

© Torecommend immediate and short term actions based on the above review.

RECOMMENDATIONS:
4. This Official Pian Amendment process be delayed unt a more visionary ook at all aspects of
‘Transportation is completed. Its, afterall, part ofthe total City's Official Plan that sets directions
into a tong range future (2081/2035) and not a“quick-ix' for a hastily defined need.
42. Stowart Blvd. is more than just the immediate trafic volumes at signaized intersections based
‘on 6 year old data and very approximate assumptions,
. Other modes of Transportation should be analyzed in more depth:
|. Opportunities for encouraging Transit use
i, Accommodating Commercial Vehicles;
©. IfLarge Commercial Vehicle" (LCV ~ Le, double trailer units) are a serious consideration, their
impacts on Stewart Bid. deserve much more study.

2. Acomplete, City-wide, Transportation Plan (as MANDATED bythe 2011 Offela Plan Isa priority before
any Traffic Analysis in any specific erea of Brockville can be complete.

3. The above notwithstanding, there are infrastructure projects that could be initiated immediately by
the City, in preparation for any future traffic needs in the study area:

‘a. Establish a construction program to eventually provide a continuous left turn lane on Stewart
Blvd. through the study area (with or without widening), to reduce conflicts when accessing
adjacent properties;

b. Plan for more interior road connections in the development area, to reduce the need for closely
spaced signalized intersections on Stewart Bud, to facilitate traffic flow in, and access to, the
area, and to encourage more use of Transit,

Prams 047.0620 Page 1 of 3 Fl: 50 OPanes tok


Page 128 of 148

‘SUBMISSION to PUBLIC MEETING

Rationale:
BT Engineering can be congratulated on thelr work in generating the impacts of large scale
‘warehousing on the signalized intersections up Stowart Bld. This may be what was asked of this
consultant, but the result is far from a complete analysis of the traffic impacts on that arterial road
through fo the horizon year of 2035. Several points must be considered:

‘©. Stewart Bivd. is more than the signalized intersections:
|. Both sides ofthis arterial through the “study area” are lined with residential, commercial and
retail lots, each with one of more entrance / exits to the properties. Turn movements in and
‘out ofthese lots, plus any line ups behind the signals, might well cause safety issues or at
least possible congestion at certain times.
li, Additional signelizing intersections are proposed ~ effectively one at each road into the 3
Phases of development.

(a) The spacing ofthat many, adding to the close spacing of existing signals on the
‘same road, is not appropriate for an “arterial road’, which is intended mainly to
‘expedite through traffic.

(b) Too many signals, too close together are difficult to ‘coordinate’ their timings to
allow a continuous flow of vehicles. This leads to congestion, stop & go traffic, and
delays, which then lead to frustrated drivers who are inherently unsafe,

Itis proposed that new “left-turn” lanes be provide at certain intersections.

(@) Given the spacing of intersections, these left tum lanes on Stewart Blvd, may end
Lp ‘ining together to effectively produce a continuous left-turn lane all the way up
Stewart Blvd,

Iv. Planning for more interior road connections in the development area, and making a
continuous left turn lane a design standard for Stewart Blvd. would eliminate many of these
seus ~ maybe even eliminating the need for one of the new signals in the process.

The traffic volumes generated, and conclusions drawn, are necessarily based on some
assumptions:
i. Existing traffic demands in the study area were obtained from weekday trafic counts
recorded by the City of Brociville during the spring and summer of 2012. Itwas assumed
that these counts would closely reflect the existing traffic operations.” (Secion22 of BT

Enger ep)
(@) Anecdotal comments, including concerns by Police of increasing accident rates at

Parkdale Ave. / Stewart Blvd. intersection, question the validity ofthis assumption,
|, The "Trip Generation’ factors used to estimate the new trafic volumes was assumed to be
fan “average” taken from several “text book” estimatos AND it was assumed that only

‘warehouse type facities would be built on the and,

Pee 207-040 Page 208 3 FP: \ ib OP aman Dao


Page 129 of 148

‘SUBMISSION to PUBLIC MEETING

{2) What are the chances that another Giant Tiger sized warehouse will be the only
next proposal.?2
To be complete the volumes generated must also include the trafic generated by the rest
of the Cty as other growth heppens over the same time span,
{@) This of course can not be done, since the Cty has never completed a City wide
‘Transportation Pian, as MANDATED by the 2011 Official Plan.
(©) Thus the trafic analysis provided assumes that all 8 Phases ofthe “Employment
Lands" happed instantaneously in 2012
iv. ‘range’ of impacts, not based on physical size, but onthe expected number of employees
and activity associated with the development, would be more appropriate for decision
making,

The other modes of transport are nat given enough consideration:
|. How couk! Transit play a larger roe in servicing this area.?
(@) 16:30 min. service botwoon 6:46 am and 6:15 pm, the 60 min, service unth 11:00
pm going to be adoquate.??
(©) How much ofthe land is within acceptable walking distance to the bus routes?
i, Commercial Vehicles of all types and sizes will be a large component of the trafic
‘generated by the envisioned land uses ofthis area
(@) Their relative volumes and impacts on the study area are not discussed at all.
(©) Appendix D2 is a report on “Large Commercial Vehicles" (LOV — ie. double traller
units)
4) This only looked at one spectic design factor turning radius), In one
specific area (401 / Stewart Bld, interchange);
2) ITLCVs are a serious consideration, their impacts on Stewart Bivd, will be
significant and deserve much more study. [n terms of: left tums at other
locations, signal timings, road capacity, thelr length (of 26.6 m = 120)
blocking ful intersections &/or multiple intersections creating "gridiock’,
along wth Issues of how the Transport Industry needs to setup their
‘operations to uncouple and distribute multiple trailers. ]

filth i a

Bir bolle

Pett: 2017-9420 Page 3 of 3 Fl: \ 8. Omen DratOt pe


Page 130 of 148

Jon Faurschow

From: anneclappert
Sent: Friday Apri 21, 2017 218 PM,

To: Jon Faurschou; Andrew Mins
Subject: Secondary lan and Rezoning Questions forthe Record
Importance High

Following the April Sth, 017 Open House, here are some questions to be put on record and for which Lam
secking specific answers,

1. Inthe Financial Analysis, it was recommended thatthe City source the necessary funds for developing
the land for purchasing from property taxes and user fees. Does this mean tha the home owners of
Brockwille are going to bear the financial burden of developing this property?

2. Should the rezoning bylaw pass, what then is the process for public consultation? Will the public or at |
least nearby residential propecies be notified and consulted before the land is sold to any developer? If
not roquired by law, statute or regulation, will City Council undertake to make sure we are informed
before the final purchaselease of any of these lands.

3, Atthe Open House several times there was zefereace to the immediate need for 20 hectares, This |
suggests that there is/are potential buyers. Who and/or specifically what type of business are these i
“Jenocks on the door” coming from?

4. At the December 13, 2016 City Council mosting, the officiel minutes state that it was decided "THAT
‘the documents be provided to the Ministry of Manicipal Affaire for review". Have these documents
(nf secondary plan and proposed rezoning bylaw) now been set to MMA for comment and
review. Has the City received a esponse? And ifso, what are the specific comments and
recommendations?

5. Before rezoning and after rezoning, the City needs to submit various reports to various Ministries for
review. Which Ministries recommendations ae binding and which are not, Le. just suggested
recommendations? Is there a difference between before and after rezoning? Ifo, specifically what is i?

6. Is the City stil going forth with a request to the Province to have the land certified as "shovel ready". 1
‘am not sure of the exact terminology but you know what I mean. Has the City submited such an
application? Will the City make this application available and when? If submitted, has any response
‘been received and if 0 exactly what? Can you please provide me with exactly what information is
requited for such certification?

7. The Citizens for Progress with Hardship (CPH) has previously and reesntly resubmitted its list of
concerns, Will you please respond to each and every one ofthese issues specifically

“Thanking you in advance and looking forward to your response, Can you please conficm receipt of this emai
and inclusion for May 2nd, 2017 EDP meeting.

‘Anne Clappeston, CPEI Seeretary


Page 131 of 148

City of Brockutié.
Employment Lands

April 5, 2017
Public Open House

Comment Sheet

Further to the discussion this evening, do you have any comments or issues regarding the
‘Secondary Plan?

‘you of upcoming events:

3p oF land’ ;
ote Srovide your ae, dross, postal Siege ( avatable) so that we can notty

rit ad pla Oo
eu opi and pen tcp ol SD pa
JonatanFarechou, MP, RPP howe in Rake
Piamart a Se woul

wy 40
Pedleeemen & BES ie Fapayes

(613) 342.72, ext


Page 132 of 148

Jon Faurschou

From: Garth mes

Sent: Monday, Api 10,2017 753 PM
To: Jon Faurschou

Subject: Fnencial Statements

Hi Jonathon, this is an enlargement on one of my questions from the Open House meeting April 5, 2017.

RE: Additional Financal impact spread sheets.

‘The industrial park project is described as 130 acres purchased by the city plus another 14 acres of cty owned
land presently under application to be severed from the closed landfil site for a total of 144 acres. Including.
the lagoon area the MMM Group describes the industrial park total including the lagoon area as phase 1.as
494 acres, phase 2 8539.5 acres (Includes 14 acres lagoon area) and phase 3 as 8.6 acres, for a total of 97.5
‘acres. The reduction in size Is as result of reclassification of wetlands and habitat or 46.5 acres now designated
as parkland,

"believe two additional 25 year projections need to be completed in addition to the ones included in the 2016
[MMM Secondary Plan. One cashflow should be done on the assumptions listed below and the other should
bbe a break even analysis, also on the assumptions listed below. Both projections should be footnoted that the
‘Véacres lagoon area is subject to severance approval from MOE.

Expenditures

{L. = Should be inclusive of all construction costs of all 3 phases. The MMM Fiscal Impact cash flow tables
show only phase 1 and 2. The similar construction costs of roadway, water maln sanitary sewers, storm
‘water and transportation similar should be Included for phase 3. If phase 3 is not planned to be developed
in the 25 yesr period, then the servicing costs should be excluded. Likewise If iti ta be developed in the
25 year time frame, the servicing costs should be included in the financial impact.

2. =Detalled Development charges should includ

+ AllGolder Associates consulting fees for al lagoon reports, 0-4 landfill buffer amendments, and ECA
‘amendment fees for lagoons.

‘+ Legal fees pertaining tothe purchase of the 5 properties for the industrial par, Including
‘expropriation foes.

‘+ All consultant fees forthe preparation ofthe Secondary plan, including Golder Associates, all MMM.
Group fees connected to the industrial park including the ELR report, BTE Engineering (2 reports),
stage 1 & 2 Archaeology reports, the Woodland Dynamics Scoped environmental Impact Assessment
and any other consultant fee orloga fees not afore mentioned.

‘+ Internal roads construction complete with curbing, signage and lighting, carrying cost of land
investment, commissions for land sales.

‘+ Initial costs and yearly costs thereafter for replacing Significant Widlfe Habitat of 37 acres either In
Jandfil rehabbing or leasing costs of similar habitat.

* Compensation costs for the endangered butternut trees.

Cost af storm water management systems.
‘© The costs of praparing stage 1 and 2 Environmental Assessments

Revenues


Page 133 of 148

Jon Fourschou
frome —
Tae ope

beeen

‘Question: RE, Industrial Park Expenses other that property purchases,

| would tke to have a total ofall related expenses since 2012 to date ofthe folowing:

‘© AllGolder Associates consulting fees for alllagoon reports, D- landfill buffer amendments, and ECA
amendment & MOEE fees for lagoons separation.

‘© Legal fees pertaining to the purchase ofthe 5 properties for the industrial par, including,

‘expropriation legal foes and any surveying costs.

All consultant fees for the preparation ofthe Secondary plan:

Golder Associates EIS study

Al MMM Group consulting fees connected to the industrial park including the ELR report,

BTE Engineering (2 reports),

Stage 1 & 2 Archaeology reports,

‘The Woodland Dynamics Scoped environmental impact Assessment and

‘Any other consultant fee(s) or legal fees not afore mentioned.

Regards, Garth McGill

Page 134 of 148

Jon Faurschou

From: Garth Mes
Sent: Monday, Api 24, 2017 822 AM.
To: Jon Faurschou

Subject: Servicing

Hisonathon,

‘On page 101 of 480in the MMM Secondary Report, last point
"Municipal servicing i avalable adjacent to the scoped study" would seem to me tobe inaccurate, The water
distrution map "Exhibit 7"

shows Parkedale Ave existing water main terminating just west of Stewart. The statement ishowever correct for phase 1
£82.05 the water main terminus s the end of Lauer Bhd. am not clear on how servicing of phase 3 wll occur. |

‘My question is: Wil the cty set the record correct regarding the water availability forthe scoped study area in the
MMM report and detail how phase 3 willbe serviced?

|
|
|
Regards, Garth McGill |

‘ori 24,2017


Page 135 of 148

Jon Faurschou

From: ‘Garth Mei
Sar Mondey, Apd24, 2017 1041 AM
To: Jon Faurschou
Subject: Parkedale Ave
‘Attachments: yo Polepg

‘i Jonathon, it seems there are items included in the MMM Secondary Report that did not get updated after the
reclassification of the unvievelopuble lands where taken out of the scoped study, Some parts soem updated but
not others. Surely $100k should demand a higher level of aocureey!. Here is another example:

‘Minimal upgrades are necessary to accommodate employment uses in the scoped study area and the existing
transportation network will be utilized. Access will be provided rom Stewart Boulevard, which have the
‘appropriate design configuration and available capacity to accommodate the additional employment
development"

‘This would lead the reader to believe all the phases ofthe industrial park will be accesved from Steward Blvd,
‘when in fact the updated traffic study states" "A westbound loft turn lane be constructed on Parkedale Avenue at
the proposed entrance to Phase 4 ofthe development” believe this entrance is to service Phases 3, 4 & 5,

‘The attached photo illustrates the present dangers of pedestrian and cycling public on Parkedale, who have to
center into the traffic lane to pass the hydro poles. On the day of the photo the available shoulder was about 18
inches. Patkedale Ave without auy upgrades would change from the dangerous status to very dangerous status!
Potting additional heavy truck trafic on Parkedale Ave west compounds an already bad situation.

‘Frankly, Jonathon the Draft Secondary Report deserves a re-write to bring all items into syne, There are cases of
differing land amounts between the two BTE Engineering Reports and the MMM report As well BTS reports
Parkedale Ave east/vest with sidewalks on both ses, which is comect up to Kent Blvd, but is incorrect west of|
‘Kent Blvd. As the picture shows no sidewalks on Parkedale Ave west.

My question is" will the City commit toa re-write or at least an erors and corrections addendum of the MMM
Secondary report?

Regards, Garth McGill
‘Apail 24, 2017



res ora Wel wate ull ard quan and nt

Te cies fo Proges witout Harp (Pi) have released el cncens and submited the Cy of rckil fas on Fobra 25, 206. The Chopin st wl ev 5
ono assis ase

resus top the

ST

PSs asin tants

ge 03.47 i ee as ne)
LEGS mee Ne cemmeomepr soi anon se

ignominy

22 Newiemne ay aoe Sg “—
45 Ri et art a

eke sg on

Ra RT

‘roman ste jr ccm an one cia

Page 1 of3

pL 10 Ze1 Bee


‘yeaa
[Peseta con

Yeouzag,

wieane

‘Seino wr tat re

ca
Ene Cbs ak at RTT

gether wi

Sr teense mainte stapes ee

han re tae

ae

rg

SS RTT TOT]

‘Sin ig no yg he on

Page 20f3

api 10.ge1 oBee

ces to CPH Concerns Brockville Business Park. F 5
1) OF ees ty froth a, Fabre 92012
2) retest traronmenta lps Sty

2) Sauce: OfRcal Pan fb9 2012, Mini ou moat the Enso, Sian Won,
‘os Bens,

* Develpment a st eatin sal ot be porte onan adjacent tthe Sgt Habtat of Edargmed Spies nd Treen Species, anesthe clog fon
thw aac nes ben evant and it hasbeen dersrsated tat tae willbe ro pst nat on he air fetes ton ecole ions Ft
purposes of hs ply, the ent facet nd sabe fined as 12) mates theres of a whch aces a eck te sesame ey ha ht lo
{endangered pcs e testa spaces maybe preset constr wh te M's eq for farther tcl aceon ela pcan haba
“danger specs nd tvestennd species A Shale requed oa devesoprent propor wn 120 mets fan adjacent areas etd suing
‘Seniant Hobtat of tanger pies nd Tvetened Spee

9) Sue Ofhal Pan, fsb9, 202, Minn apis on the ndconmert, Sian Won
eb temsz7728
‘+ 26. Development or te teat peposed na Spin Wood fete ustaled on Schetle 3 shal be abet oth caption of an peo evelopment ore
siteaton Developer or ste swaton ina Sgn! Woedland asta sal not be ered ett has bandon tha her wi bu ome pes
‘aur festures or ta ecdge nce
‘+ 21.02lopmant and ste aeration shal ot be petted on nd acento a Scat Woodland fest une it a been deena ta there wie no negative
‘eat onthe Sra Weld featur conte ecolgca nets. rhe purposes oy tw eter alee an halle 120m rom thee ofthe
‘Seni Woodlnd Seto he poles Seton 3.67, an 8 shal be requed fe al develoent propos on nds aden an erie Scant Wenn
‘+28 rr consting dvlopment anor ste aeration oo win acer nd or butieg ares of» Spica Wood the Cyn contain wth he ataraat
‘eyion Conran Author and MIM. wlbe sats ts te ES eostes that are wl eno neg mgt on th aba ves pon which the pacts Spend
recy and indirect, nay related eagles
‘9 Sut: ofal Pn e032 Favsometal mc Stay (5 Pos
Seznamasis
‘Th Cy shal require that an Se cared out and compte by gis profesional te lo cles andor aquatic, etorenetl planing
tesior revo arsine

‘+5 the scope and nent of on Esl be stabs asd onthe at ofthe evelopment propo hich my be defined nthe Gels Terms Reference fr the
epoton othe tS

+ 6 heat and sap of parte development open shal sve to dfn th typeof ad review itr to be arsed
© Some an, eb, 2012 Neeburhod Comma ies,
prrceriry

tc lscapng fc tering nd ater srening hl be provided adacen to resent and ues wher preps;

mend Fn
‘the inact proposed amendment on te tracal sutamaityo th y.

Page 3 of 3

‘pL 10.681 Bee


Page 140 of 148

Jon Faurschou
From: neo r E° 0-773.
Sent Fido, Ap 21, 2017 1022 AM Ds
te nrursdon : 4

Sbjct pen out oes

tachment: oe OsOpertoseFil dct

Importance: High \

‘Jon, to be put on the record, bere ae the CPH notes ofthe April 1th Open House.

‘Thank you forthe binder yesterday. Please thank whoever did all the work to pat it together. Much
appreciated

‘Anne Clapperton,

Page 141 of 148

ty of Brokvile -Open House Employment Lands Northwest rochile <6 181 Tp
Notes by Ciens for Progress without Hardship (CPH) < an
Wednesday, April, 2017 (2 geben D

‘Memorial Centre, Brockville Reever
6:00-8:30 PM et ape 28 000
NG
1. 600-630 p.m. Dipays eps

‘a. Displays of the draft secondary plan were avaliable for public to view including
‘Secondary Plan documents. Greg Bender (MMM), Jon Faurschou (City Planner) and
‘Alexander McGinnis (City Planner) were available for questions. Attendees were
asked to sign in and sheets were provided for questions and comments to be
submitted.

2. ‘There were about 25 attendees mainly those informed by email or post who indicated to
City interest to be notified of meeting. There was one notice inthe R&T and somewhere on
the City's website there was a notice (Le. minimum statutory notice).

3. 630- Callto Ord

2 Jon Furschou called the meting to order and introduced Greg Bender rom MINA
and Andrew MeGinns, anther Cty planner to answer questions. The Chair
‘mentioned that there were sheets atthe back ofthe room fr people to submit
virten questions andthe Cty would respond as oon as possible.

b. The next step il bea statutory meeting under the Panning Act which wil be held
by the Economie Development Planning Committee on May 2 at Cty Hal eal be
atbvortised i paper, ee 38 required by the Panning Ac. People can either make
presentations and/or email comments in and/or bring to the Committee.

4. Presentation (attached)

‘Greg Bender (MMM) gave a presentation ofthe history, sues, secondary plan.

GGreg encouraged reviewing boards for good understanding of context. Relterated

submitting of questions to guarantee on record and guarantee answer.

b. ‘The presentation Is attached. Rather than reiterating this information the rest of the
notes wll focus on the QfsAs.

‘© Bender noted that above and beyond regulated requirements, the draft Secondary
Plan proposes addltional setbacks, screening, et. to help mitigate Impacts of
development on residents

4d. Questions asked during presentation are included in Annex 1 below.

Version: Final
‘April 21,2017


Page 142 of 148

5. QBA—The meeting was then opened up to GRA. Requested that people also submit.
comments In writing. After May 2 can sil submit comments for city consideration until
final secondary plan put before Coun.

‘a. Detall ofthe Q&As are below in Annex.

6. Adjournment

‘a. The Chalr stated that there would be the EDP meeting on May 2 at city Hall where
oral and written presentations could be presented. Also, any questions and
comments should be submitted to Jon Faurschou and they would be responded to
as soan as possible.

'. Committee will respond to public questions and then back to EDP usually a month
later. The cycle of go back to drawing board or move forward continues until EDP
approves.

‘&. Once EDP approves, then to City Council far approval

4d. Jon Faurschou adjourned the meeting around 8:30 p.m.

Garth McGill cPH chair
Tel:
cemall:

Version: Fal
‘pril23, 2037


Page 143 of 148

‘Ail, 2037 Open ouse
Memorial Gate
Lauesione and Anowers

or

Bare Wale

eve aad tte hy qutons stout any egivn ngat fhe
[roped erp on rl an ts ar ot dy ep,
wt ry ea empties sod sone hppa a
ur vatr Spreng rom secret?

he y's tnt sto rounder stay esr hat nae
Thee pote pace Ue Oy es sun Se
‘aval be oeced newegg ou nbn nag nor kat
Tre ue meena et respon

sy egret vs cudnt pete the NW seni Stowe,

tha merange wtb moda a 40% ces The popes

rennet ant nly sows ty on et a nt ng

‘Stound.Tre ets cube med at rea tees pron
ne asd awe

Seder —se dont nada aznimedste Lvs to mead wth
‘elopnt ed olin fring doo eed.

Wy shut ain atsane gt are Comal oc compete
Sele iyo sot nena ter” mare reid ct
‘uo oer este tc.
‘Sultans com age at

comin wares ola oN wen byt Cy

Gahan roe Pa Ware aT

Attra ak thsi ht ace fans abe. 30,
erst th na a rents on tn

‘Te consan i ote nso the sae et ern
{he yates cement nn th pe sa a tae
‘re omen ies The uta uy nea eed
‘Seon pcg at edo

=a yg?
The comin war ated ihe aver waa hand, Gath spoke

hs constant ata ad Th RW nds ae ny te

Jon 2007


Page 144 of 148

{ea oi dopa Te area compre Woane
eas pa op ss remind nae), besos
‘Se aces ewe, rn co ses wile haba at
‘eosto pots eases betes develogmet it
"tect tnan get even one lore Scop can

es

rath compensator stg forthe war habit?

The rates happen btn yl ele

7 Gah = ac rae ieee > Min ya)

Doe ti ne te Acre ted a unevpatie? bat et
(rough econo aoa ncenes con prac) gets Oe
aac feet or ded ose nce ea a?

‘Se hese reer ae sed on CON win ta yar you
Freie aaah pret
1 splot anc amis, he st fd tat lle
‘ioral sles oeede bom
1 sates ace
1 soon post rahe prod mbes

trove?
2 ow many al ae ren even etree tee

‘rao aunt hat he pola een tems at
Drolean ea understand Te fear vay at olin 2
Siested ne resnation. Ml bevery puso devel pene
‘ropa fhe ae toc ow nt wend SF ass
reste, om)

[we a strain cate a tr
Drs tom is

sands aro a atin othe hy andthe yan dee
|The wants stu MM tos The omar wold sea ore
‘ely to pone en th edo unera can ans

Anta 2007


Page 145 of 148

wt arenes caring css sts of es, pcos ort
tien oir he nae re

senda satan cn get beter oer fom acoteagi. Ho Unrtaod
| eats cons were pt nas shinp sum ae ssumoten

‘Te constants sad evston oy

Where bp tat was trata nh ln and wld a? Ti
‘oti ere yo hatha ig =
‘Silthre orgs anes nd aye yas eta!

Sander rape a hac a an innate ned rca.

Name remand have cand. Onl ae ede he be
pete ory Sear Thre nim oad
‘Seminary ota eo hav an yo
Imaesureeaponding te ene an ot om 008

nesses ee eet. Demand cams rm bance wr ant
'stop epee ad compare aren 1 hate sn anspor

Asked wy ts ‘ape eed as aed oe 206 dt stn see
thai lyn ote ree 0 mate andi ce wc shat
Irompuble. Th stars an are nets. Mc geen

cn a si ner rad rapid net

‘sth aon pti ent cing a he dou Lt carat
seer tars?

‘wos sigested ht the const a bon ald ath ry a ad 8
umber far br nrg pestis News ave bon bane on
"omaton on he

7 Pe Ati ae
Tues nd angst on Cy wb whi reference so.
Wwe, ce oma by Gy omanar Ebon. hy Fat
hs ban core?

og cou nlp ot beach unpaly rid he nt
‘ela pn mae) Th coats wer aed oak
‘eine et

Rn at gps ad Ose

Sende nita mtr quan

‘ern Fl
seas, 2017


Page 146 of 148

meine he ad Fa ac Ey ra a
‘pons ppt of isntown an hag ee
‘rae orescence |

1H Annee proper asd re a Ty
Whose poner tee? che resents?

Senecio ete papery tvs wok be wed the
‘evar? proper ees troup the senate ert oy
‘elena. Cyan tendo ota suas bn dom he
Seepage tans

7. Gee etereng ws poet oud wate
the Cyst ndsraVnmene doers esi to
svete okt round wate retin decopmen ofthe
bones

cerca wn te yo ba

‘They fey eens ar hav fa ete wt eta
opens ssl evapo hose on wel We shot
Site We nae core abot otra priest
‘hon et nt he water upp an etn tre ne eg
‘trim ot eng to ear wala Ws pet MY WEL?

bean tot wate eerbeznze css. Wi te Cy ere vs
al poten ey?

rtrd he cy we sn 25 tao hl teton 2035 en os
Pica warour water, ewe sce notes en
Vi wort tenn tency pert)
Then atest one stage coopers at
Inet rgutemarstom wate san

Sender rept poh cy eter oes unt oc geo he
(elope thers do ourcwse sy

stereo oie oct en pa ey

coder not requomens oh sty we erator ey at
etre deve urate stay newb one

ost sah ert sen ha ona an aa Gat eed
they snow sting at greunauate soy recor ow
‘mya quay of ae eas ae sad

ent 2037


Page 147 of 148

ae ya came to wer wth ur Boom cng
Spero

| nF asin caro sn aaetonzza wT oar ar Aa
| tint sre ust a mtvcnmenal ane Caparo
| ott car water ond sage

"Hiner topo we ve wo ik

cm undartandg ce hal one Cauca te Seonny
Fanaa rong bre wie opus conta ce
comotnes pring on eropg Wes. ph et?

senar spake tothe renga beng ey tmp

Mcsinst-Onca mary spl, an elope pase Cy base
‘Ssuimt tes reqotomert neon a, pet
‘enters ow MOU CRA, then el proves eye
"ews. Ay ress wl gto pd ers Cy Curio pt
fora ut meting Nave tore seeing wo

“TFRs i Geek

{nthe cont fh uy ofthe waa mon of te rts ate
‘efereneet lenge tr Ho a be
‘Shy fhe gute forte water poe tora?

cau MOECE soul be erseting the pb hi. They oy #8
‘ae wate steht to posoranae aden a They
Fetureyototatecae ot. flor ap sn wre
potent reat he eka tes sae

FE Ra RC a a Wor

Inte hast he roped SC hg ata fr the ty
(rte ae a socmer ret wo afc weo n
Hower, ough a aut tothe Cy sans ha he
ica inca been ese ee anon rad a pase.
tetany, why st fx pec hat po wed ek
oto aneprive pact one ites we?

{eeoaat te

ot shart cnr ik at st ee
‘Shes tower Teens mort eig a h
‘sede retro ce etch Scat psa

1. Pt = adr tes

‘ona 2007


Page 148 of 148

Fri avin ae wa on ain ie RET. TE

‘dope spartan cnsp) tal rceveda mendto be | sonF stadt he hy patie aan omorw/ paper abut the

|eomed abut mn ahve operant ndestand wal | May mtg Th Cy So pasts on weet a

eg ones iy. Rg om, wi be pad bys | pry ars ati oh uly won meetings re he. A

(econert so orb stot Teresi some roy the eve se whe
Rovebeen sede be omad easing we so seed, Tw yok
the at of forming sens byes Tare re ab 8
‘heproperiesforroning. The yn dono at breed by
Sates sain asin ahd he Opn ae

eon at :
on 2017 :


