a Public Meeting
sees Economic Development &

vor [eo scaNDE Planning Committee
Wednesday, May 14,2014, 7:00 pm
COMMITTEE MINUTES Brockville Memorial Centre Community Hall

‘Committee Members:
Councilor M. Kalivas, Acting Chair
Councillor D. Beatty

Councilor D. LeSueur

Regrets:
Councilor M. McFall
Mayor D. Henderson

Staff:
Mr. J. Faurschou, Planner |

Mr. A. McGinnis, Planner

Ms. M. Pascoe Merkley, Director of Planning
Ms. S. Seale, City Clerk (Recording Secretary)

Others:
Mr. Chris Tyrell, MMM Group
Mr. Bobby Gauthier, MMM Group

‘The Chair called the meeting fo order at 7:00 pm.
1. New Comprehensive Zoning By-law

Moved by: Couneillor Beatty

THAT the Final Draft Zoning By-law be received; and

THAT staff are hereby directed to prepare the final by-law for presentation to
‘Committee/Council

CARRIED
Councilor Kalivas reviewed the procedures for the Public Meeting.
Ms. Pascoe Merkley, Director of Planning, announced that the Notice of Public Meeting
respecting the application for Zoning By-law Amendment was advertised in the

Brackville Recorder and Times Newspaper on April 17th and 24th, 2014 and a link to
the Final Draft Zoning By-law was placed on the City website.

Page 1 of 2

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Wednesday, May 14, 2014

Ms, Pascoe Merkley indicated that this was another opportunity to receive public
‘comments concerning the Comprehensive Zoning By-law. She noted that this is in
addition to the comments received throughout the process of developing the new
Zoning By-law.

Councilor Kalivas, Acting Chait, asked that any person wanting further notice of the
passage of the proposed amendment should give their fullname, address and postal
code to the Secretary prior to leaving the meeting,

Mr. Chris Tyrell explained the purpose of a zoning bylaw. He then provided a brief
‘overview of the proposed changes to the Zoning by-law.

Mr. Leo Doucette, General Manager, 1000 Island Mall indicated support for the Draft
‘Comprehensive Zoning Bylaw.

‘There were no other people in attendance to provide comments.
‘Councilor Kalivas indicated that this matter will be considered by the Economic
Development and Planning Committee at a fulure meeting, which will make a
recommendation to Counell
Moved by: Councillor LeSueur
THAT the meeting be adjourned.

CARRIED

The meeting adjourned at 7:19 pm.

Page 2 012

