Page

16-18

Page 1 of 18

Economic Development and
Planning Committee

Tuesday, January 5, 2016, 5:15 pm

City Hall, Council Chambers

Committee Members Areas of Responsibility
Councillor P. Deery, Economic Development Economic Development
Chair Planning Advisory Team.
Councillor L. Bursey Chamber of Commerce Museum Board
Councillor M. Kalivas BIA brary Board
Councillor D. LeSueur Heritage Brockville Arts Centre
Mayor D. Henderson, Tourism
Ex-Officio

COMMITTEE AGENDA

Disclosure of Interest

Delegations and Presentations
Nil.

Correspondence
Nil.

Staff Reports

2016-02-01
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014
100 Stewart Boulevard, Brockville

Owner: Royal Brock Retirement Living Inc.

THAT Zoning By-law 050-2015 be amended to modify the C2-9
General Commercial Special Exception Zone in effect on lands with
‘municipal address 100 Stewart Boulevard to allow those uses
permitted in the C2 Zone as well as a retirement home.

2. 2016-004-01
Request to Stop Up, Close and Dispose of a portion
of Charles Street to Brockville General Hospital

THAT Council declare that Charles Street between Ormond Street
and Bartholomew Street to be surplus and authorize the stop up
and close of said lands conditional upon suitable resolution between
the property owner of 135 Ormond Street and the Brockville

Page 2 of 18

Economic Development and Planning Committee
January 5, 2016

General Hospital concerning access to the 2nd floor at 135 Ormond
Street.

THAT the subject property be sold to the Brockville General Hospital
for two dollars ($2.00) plus all associated costs on the transaction
inclusive of publication notices, survey and legal costs subject to
easements to water, sewer, Bell and Cogeco; and

THAT the Mayor and Clerk be authorized to execute all necessary
documents to give effect to the intention thereof.

New Business - Reports from Members of Council
Nil.

Consent Agenda
Motion to Move into Closed Session (5:45 pm)

THAT pursuant to Municipal Act, 2001, Section 239, Sub. 2, (c), the
Committee resolve itself into Closed Session to conside

1. a proposed or pending acquisition or disposition of land by the
‘municipality or local board;

Report of the Committee from Closed Session
THAT the EDP Committee rise from Closed Session without reporting.
Adjournment

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee adjourned

its meeting until the next regular meeting scheduled for February 2,
2016.

Page 3 of 18

11 December 2015,

REPORT TO THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE — January
05, 2016

2016-002-01

PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO ZONING M. PASCOE MERKLEY
BY-LAW 050-2014, 100 STEWART BLVD. DIRECTOR OF PLANNING.
OWNER: ROYAL BROCK RETIREMENT LIVING INC. JONATHAN FAURSCHOU
APPLICANT: NOVATECH (Greg Mignon) PLANNER |
FILE: 14-010 0.204

RECOMMENDATION

THAT Zoning By-law 050-2015 be amended to modify the C2-9 General Commercial
Special Exception Zone in effect on lands with municipal address 100 Stewart
Boulevard to allow those uses permitted in the C2 Zone as well as a retirement home.

PURPOSE

‘The purpose of this report is to provide recommendations on an application for
‘amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2015 respecting the property at 100
‘Stewart Boulevard,

BACKGROUND

Novatech, acting for the property owner, Royal Brock Retirement Living inc., fled an
pplication for amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 with respect to
lands legally described as Part of Park Lot D, Block 40, Compiled Plan 67, City of
Brockville, County of Leeds; municipal address 100 Stewart Blvd. A supporting letter of
request and explanation, which was provided with the application, has been attached as
Schedule “A” fo this Report. The application for an amendment to Zoning By-law 050-
2014 would modify the text of the current C2-0 General Commercial Special Exception
Zone to permit those uses permitted in the C2 Zone, a mixed commercialresidental
building and a retirement home.

‘The development proposal would convert the existing hotel to a retirement home, with
site layout and surface parking facilities generally remaining the same,

‘As outlined in correspondence dated October 08, 2015, received from Novatech with
the submission of the application, the requested amendment would accommodate
conversion of the hotel into @ retirement home, and would allow for conversion of the
‘existing restaurant, fitness centre and other commercial spaces into a dining room and
‘amenity space for the retirement home. Redevelopment of the subject property will take

Page 4 of 18

aeseoozot Page
Proponea Amendment o Zoning Bylaw 802014
[eect Bea

place in two phases. The proposal would also accommodate future plans to convert
some of the fitness centre area into retirement suites and additional amenity spaces
such as a movie theatre, lounge and salon for retirement residents. In addition, an
additional building may be constructed on the lot. The amended C2-9 Zone, if
approved, would also continue to permit commercial uses and mixed
‘commercialresidential buildings while removing the requirement for commercial uses to
be located within the ground floor of a retirement home buiiding.

Zoning and. I

Official Pian: Mixed Use and Commercial Area

Existing Zoning: 2-8 — General Commercial Special Exception Zone

Proposed Zoning: Modification to the C2-9 - General Commercial Special Exception
Zone to permit those uses permitted in the C2 Zone, a mixed
‘commercial/residential building and a retirement home.

Site Characteristics:

‘The lands have a lot area of 13,086.0 mé, with lot frontages on Stewart Blvd. (156.7 m),
‘Schofield Avenue (75.0 m), Central Avenue West (62.0 m), and Perth Street (13.0 m).
The subject land is currently occupied by the former Royal Brock — Quality Hotel.

‘Schedule “B" to this report shows the location of the subject lands, exis
land proposed site improvements.

Surrounding Land Use:

North: Lands located to the north (across Central Avenue West) are zoned R6-Multiple
Residential Zone; occupied by an older apartment building.

conditions

East: Lands located to the east are zoned R2-Single Detached Residential Zo
‘occupied by single detached dwellings fronting on Stewart Biv.

‘South: Lands located to the south are zoned:

R2-Single Detached Residential Zone; occupied by single detached dwellings
{fronting on Schofield Avenue and Stewart Blvd.

R5-Multiple Residential Zone; occupied by an older apartment complex fronting
‘on Schofield Avenue.

C1-6-Local Commercial Special Exception Zone; occupied by a personal
service establishment.

3-General Residential Zone; occupied by a semi-detached dwelling.

Page 5 of 18

zmeorzat Page s
Propose Amendment Zoning Bylaw 0802014

‘0a Stewart Sv

Fle: D101

West: Lands located to the west (on Perth Street) are zoned:

C1-5-Local Commercial Special Exception Zone; occupied by an older stone
building permitting a personal service establishment and one apartment unit; or
‘wo residential apartment units.

R3-General Residential Zone (immediately adjacent to the Royal Brock
property and across Perth Street at Central Avenue West); occupied by older
single detached residential dwelling units.

R3-General Residential Zone (west side of Perth Street); occupied by a mix of
residential dwelling units.

R5-Muttiple Residential Zone (west side of Perth Street); occupied by an older
twelve (12) unit apartment building.

Participation

‘The application requesting a Zoning Amendment has proceeded though the normal
review process. On 01 December 2015, a Public Meeting (Report No. 2015-130-12)
was held by the Economic Development and Planning Committee. Notice of the Public
Meeting was advertised in the Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper on 5
November 2015 and was circulated to property owners within 120.0 metres (400.0 feet)
Of the subject property. In addition, a sign was posted on the subject property advising
that the lands are the subject of an Application for Amendment to the City of Brockville
Zoning By-law 050-2014. Comments from City Departments and affected agencies
‘were also solicited. The minutes of the Public Meeting held on 01 December 2015 are
attached as Schedule “C” to this Report.

Comments Received are summarized below:

1. Steve Allen, Supervisor of Engineering (memo dated November 06, 2018):
“The Environmental Services Department has reviewed the request for a zoning by-
Jaw amendment dated November 5, 2015 that would allow for the conversion of the
existing site from a “hotel fo a retirement home with or without the commercial uses”
and we are not opposed to the application."

2. Conal Cosgrove, Director of Operations (memo dates November 14, 2018:

“The Operations Department has no comments with respect fo this application.”

Page 6 of 18

zeneoo2et Page
Proposed hrenament o Zoning Bytaw 086-2016

‘e'Stewer Sve

Fi B16

3. Greg Healy, Chief Fire Prevention Officer (memo dated November 20, 2016):

“After reviewing the proposal for the above-noted project, please be advised that this
Department has no fire safety concerns at this time.

We would suggest circulation of drawings for the building permit.”
4, Brent Caskenetto, Chief Building Offical (memo dated November 09, 2015):

“Our review of the Zoning By-law Amendment notice for the above noted subject site
development has been completed and at this time would advise that we have no
concerns, provided that the applicant obtain the necessary permits for creation of
additional units and proposed renovations.

The applicant should be made aware that a review of complete construction
drawings at the time of application for a building permit may reveal requirements of
the Ontario Building Code, not evident as part of this notice, which may affect the
site development.”

5. Nikki De Groot, Municipal Planning Advisor, Distribution Planning & Records,
Enbridge Gas Distribution (letter dated December 04, 2015):

"Enbridge gas does not object tothe proposed application(s).
Enbridge Gas Distribution reserves the right to amend or remove development
conditions."

No comments from the Public have been received to-date,

ANALYSIS

Provincial Policy Considerations:

‘The Provincial Policy Statement 2014 (PPS) issued under Section 3 of the Planning Act
provides policy direction on matters of Provincial interest related to land use planning
and development. Section 3 of the Planning Act further directs that Council decisions
affecting planning matters “shall be consistent with” the Provincial Policy Statement.

Part V of the PPS contains various policies. Those policies relevant to the subject
application are found in Section 1.0 Building Strong Healthy Communities. Within this
Section are statements on managing and directing land use to achieve efficient
development and land use patterns.

More specifically, Subsection 1.1.1 speaks to healthy, liveable and safe communities
which are to be sustained by, among other elements, accommodating an appropriate
range and mix of residential units, institutional (Including long term care homes), and

Page 7 of 18

‘amreorzet Pages
Propose Amendment to Zoning yaw 0802044

‘o'Stomat iva

Fi D140

promoting efficient development, by accommodating a mix of land uses to meet long-
term needs, promoting costeffective development standards to minimize land
consumption and servicing costs, and improving accessibility for persons with
disabilities and the elderly, among other things.

Section 1.2.6 deals with Land Use Compatibility and states that "Major facilities and
sensitive land uses should be planned to ensure they are appropriately designed,
buffered andior separated from each other to prevent or mitigate adverse effects from
‘odour, noise and other contaminants, minimize risk to public health and safety, and to
ensure the long-term viability of major facilites.

Section 1.3.1 states among others that Planning Authorities shall promote economic
development and competitiveness by:

1a) providing for an appropriate mix and range of employment and institutional uses
to meet long-term needs; and

d) ensuring the necessary infrastructure is provided to support current and
projected needs.

Section 1.4 states identifies the need for an appropriate range and mix of housing types:
‘and densities by permitting and faciltation all forms of housing to meet the social, health
‘and well-being requirements of current and future residents, including special needs
(persons with disabilties and housing for seniors) requirements.

‘The proposed change of use is to occur within an existing, municipally serviced building
and within a centrally located, developed and well serviced neighbourhood.

In addition, the proposed change of use envisions the provision of a significant facility
for seniors with a potential commercial component within the existing building and/or
through the construction of a new separate commercial building on available surplus
lands.

Accordingly, the proposed change of use is consistent with the above-stated goal
objectives and policies of the PPS 2014.

Official Pian Considerations

‘The Official Plan provides guidance on how to manage future growth, development, and
change within the City of Brockville. The subject properties are designated under
‘Schedule 1 - City Structure, of the Offical Pian, as “Moed Use and Commercial Area”
(Section 4.5) with "Mixed Use Node” provisions (Section 3.2.2.1).

‘The goal of the Oficial Plan is to create a sustainable City in terms of health and vitality,
that is economically viable and diverse, has high quality municipal services and
amenities, and is well planned,

Page 8 of 18

ameoraat Pages
‘Proposed Amendment to Zoning Byaw 050-2014

‘0 Star vs

le OTe

Section 2.3 outlines strategic planning themes which include “A Sustainable, Healthy,
and Vital City’, “An Economically Strong and Diverse City’, “A High Quality of City

‘and A Well-Planned Responsive City’. Specifically, “A
Sustainable, Healthy, and Vital City’ outlines, among others, that the City is to conserve
land enhance the natural environment while promoting a healthy and safe community
and promote a flexible and adaptive economic environment that encourages investment
and a broad range of employment opportunities.

‘The proposed change of use of a former hotel to a seniors building, with commercial
‘component potential, assists in reinforcing the strong sense of community by providing
an alternative housing opportunity and promoting a stronger healthy and safe
‘community.

Section 3 addresses building a healthy and sustainable City. Through Policy 3.2.3
which describes the City’s Urban Area, it 1s noted that the City should support
‘opportunities for infil, redevelopment and intensification through a mix and range of
uses appropriate within the community context. Thus is further supported through
policies under Section 3.2.2.1-Mixed Use Nodes and Corridors, wherein the node is a
city-wide focal point accommodating a range commercialretailiservice uses, a mix of
residential uses, etc. which will not have a destabilzing effect on established
neighbourhoods. The reuse of the former hotel also contributes to the vision of the
Stewart Boulevard/Hwy 401 gateway as being a “doorstep” by expanding the diversity
of available housing stock within the City

Section 3.2.6 speaks to “Mixed-Use and Commercial Areas” and that the City is to
adapt the commercial nodes to a flexible and mixed use form, including but not limited
to, buildings which may include a range of housing opportunities, leisure, recreation and
‘social opportunities, amenities, facilities and infrastructure also cater to the needs of,
aging and active populations

‘Section 3.5-Strengthening Our Essential Human Services, addresses various forms of
housing, both new and old while ensuring that such uses are acceptable in terms of
traffie generation, location, design, etc.

‘Section 4.5 addresses the Mixed Use and Commercial Area including permitted uses
‘end land use and built form policies. Subsection 4.6.23 recognises “special needs
‘housing, senior citizens’ homes and similar housing facilis for seniors.”

In general, there does not appear to be any conflict with the Official Plan policies with
respect to a project of this nature in this location. In fact, it would advance many of the
City's goals and objectives as described therein through the re-use of a building in
transition at a prominent city gateway location.

Page 9 of 18

zmeccza Page
Proponed Amendment o Zoning Bptow 00-2014

‘Stow Svs

Fis DIE

Zoning By-law Considerations:

‘The subject property is currently zoned as C2-9 ~ General Commercial Special
Exception Zone. The application for an amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014
requests the modification of the text of the current C2-9 General Commercial Special
Exception Zone to permit those uses permitted in the C2 Zone, a mixed
‘commercialiresidential building and a retirement home.

‘The current text of the C2-9 ~ General Commercial Special Exception Zone reads as
follows:

“6.3.5.9 C2-9 Zone (100 Stewart Blvd.)

The usos permitted in the C2-9 Zone shall be those uses permitted in the C2
Zone, as well as @ mixed commercialresidential development. For purposes of
tthe 62-9 Zone, a “mixed commercialresidential development” is as defined in
this by-law, however, the residential component may consist of a retirement
‘home, and a minimum of 936.0 sq. m. of ground floor space must be devoted to
‘one or more commercial uses permited in this zone.”

‘The applicant has requested the current zoning would continue to permit those uses
permitted in the C2 Zone and a mixed commercialresidential building while adding a
retirement home as a permitted use. Additionally, as it relates to the mixed
‘commercialresidential building permitted in the C2-9 Zone, the applicant requests the
removal of the text which establishes that a minimum of 935.0 sq. m. of ground floor
space must be devoted to one or more commercial uses.

The rationale put forward by the applicant recognizes that there may be potential for
‘commercial space within the builing or in a stand-alone building to be developed on
the site in the future, but due to the nature and requirements of the proposed use of the
building, being a retirement home, specifying that @ commercial area with a minimum
floor area of 935 m* on the ground floor is problematic. Accordingly, the applicant has
requested thatthe minimum commercial floor area on the ground flor be deleted.

It should be noted that all C2 uses are intended to continue to be permitted in the C2-9
Zone. Since a mixed commercialiresidential building is already a permitted use, it is not
necessary to re-state this inthe text of the C2-9 Zone.

‘Should the recommendation above be accepted by Council, the revised text for the C2-
9 Zone would read similar to the following:

“6.3.5.9 C2-9 Zone (100 Stewart Boulevard):

The uses permitted in the C2-9-General Commercial Special Exception Zone
shall be those permitted within the C2- General Commercial Special Exception

Page 10 of 18

zesecczot Page
Fopone Anarcierta Zoning yoy 002016

Fle DIES
Zone as well as a retirement home.”

The Planning Department has no objection to the requested zoning as it maintains the
general intent of the existing zoning while allowing for flexibility and re-use of an iconic
building within the City.

POLICY IMPLICATIONS.
‘As noted in the Analysis section of this report, the proposed amendment to Zoning By-
law 050-2014 for 100 Stewart Boulevard is consistent with the PPS and with the
relevant policies of the City's Official Plan.

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS.

All costs associated with the use of the property are the responsibilty of the
‘Owner/Applicant.

CONCLUSION

Following review of the PPS, Offical Plan and Zoning By-law, itis reasonable to allow
for the C2-9 - General Commercial Special Exception Zone to be modified to allow

those uses permitted in the C2 Zone as well as a retirement home. This Is reflected in
the recommendation at the beginning ofthis report.

hhc Dio bly 7

M, Pascoe Merkley, MCIP, Tra ;, NCIP, RPP
Director of Planning Planner
B. Casselman

City Manager

Page 11 of 18
‘SCHEDULE “A” - Report 2016-002-01

October 8°, 2015
ity of Brockvito
Planning Department
1 King Street West, P.O. Box 5000,
Brockville, ON
BV 7A5,
‘Attention: Maureen Pascoe-Merkley, MCIP, RPP, Director of Planning
Dear Ms. Pascoe-Merkiey:
Reference: Brockville Retirement Home
100 Stewart Boulevard

Zoning By-law Amendment Application
(Our Fle No. 115146

Novatech has been retained to fle a zoning bylaw amendment application for the Royal Brock
hotel property located at 100 Stewart Boulevard. The subject property is located on the west side
of Stewart Boulevard between Central Avenue and Schofield Avenue, and le legally descrbed as
Pan of Park Lot D, Block 40 of Compiled Pan 67, in the City of Brockville. It has a lot area of
13,086 mt (1.9 ha) and lot frontages of approximataly 156.7 metres on Stewart Boulevard, 75
‘metres on Schotleld Avenue, 62 metres on Central Avenue and 13 metres on Perth Street.

‘The Royal Brock Hotel ranges in height from one 10 five storeys and includes a total of £0
‘guestrooms, 3 conference/meeting rooms, a restaurant, bar, and a filness centre witha gym, poo,
‘Sauna, and 8 racket sport courts. “The Plor Community Outreach center, run by the Piar Church, is
located in the basement of the Royal Brock Hotel. Varioue ministries catering tothe community at
large are hosted at The Pier, Monday through Saturday. ‘The remainder of the property conslts of
landscaped areas and outdoor surface parking facies. Thore are five points of access to tho
‘property; two on Stewart Boulevard, two on Schofleld Avenue and one on Perth Street.

‘The development proposal involves the conversion ofthe existing hotel to @ retirement home, with
‘the site layout and eurface parking feces generally remaining the same. The Pier Communty
(Outreach centre wil continue to hold Its ministries from its current location in the basement of the
bullaing.

‘Tho subject property is zoned C2:9, which permits “those uses in the C2 Zone, as wol as @ mixed
conmerstrestrtel apart For purceas of bw C2 Zone 4 bcd conan
residential development” is as defined in this by-law, however, the residential component ay
Consist of a retirement home, and a minimum of 985.0 8g. m. of ground oor space must be
devoted to one or more commercial uses permitted in this zone”

‘The requested zoning by-4aw amendment would delete the existing above-noted text of the 02-9
‘Zone (Section 6.3.5.9) and replace kt wth the folowing:

Site 20,240 Michael Compland Di, Ormmn ON KM 1P6, Te 6132549643 Fax 6132545867 wewaonetecheng om

Page 12 of 18

oe NOVAT=CH Im@)

eorees rere burcupe ec)

“The uses permitted In the C2-9 Zone shall be those uses permited in the C2 Zone, a mixed
commercialresidentie! buiding and a retirement home”

‘The modification to the tex ofthe C2-0 Zone would accommodate the conversion of the hotel into a
retirement home, and would alow the conversion of the existing public restaurant, ftness contre
‘and other spaces Into @ dining room and amenity space for the retirement home, with no
requirement that they be open to the general publc. In addition, would accommodate future
plans to convert some of the fitness centre into retirement sultes and actitional amenity spaces
‘Such as @ movie theator, lounge, and salon for retirement residents. As amended, the C2-9 Zone
‘would continue to permit commercial uses, as well a8 mixed commercia/residential bullings;
Would merely not oblige them tobe located within the ground floor ofa retirement home building.

‘The conversion wil take place In two phases. Preliminary flor plans and elevations for each
phase accompany this application for reference purposes.

‘A subsequort Sito Plan application willbe filed to address any exterior moxitications tothe building
required as part ofthe conversion process.

In support of this zoning by-aw amendment appication, please find the folowing documents

i

‘Application form (9 copies)
‘Application fee of $2,275 made out tothe City of Brockvile

Praliminary Sto Pian, ‘Plot Plan’ (3 copies, 11x17)

Preliminary Floor Plans and elevations, Phase 1 and Phase 2 (3 copies, 11x17)
POF of Proliminary plans

Bie ars, MRE A ETEE
=~

ae

Satta

oe:

xencos,

os a te

She 20,240 Michael Cowpand Dire, Ou ON KEM 1P6 Te 613254063, ex 6152545867 wrewacrtech-ngcoms

13 01 18


Page 14 of 18
‘SCHEDULE “C” - Report 2016-02-01

Public Meeting
Economic Development &
‘GHVOF THE 1000 STANDS Planning Committee

Tuesday, December 01, 2015, 6:00 pm
COMMITTEE MINUTES City Hall, Council Chambers

Committee Member
Councillor P. Dery, Chair

Councillor L. Bursey

Councillor M. Kalivas

Councillor D. LeSueur

Councillor Mayor D. Henderson, Ex-Officio

Staff:

Mr. J. Faurschou, Planner 1

Ms, S. MacDonald, City Clerk

Ms. M. Pascoe Merkley, Director of Planning

‘The Chair called the meeting to order at 6:09 pm.
EM

4. 2015-130-12
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014
4100 Stewart Blvd. Royal Brock - Quality Hotel
‘Owner: Royal Brock Retirement Living Inc.
Applicant: Novatech (Sarah McCormick)

Moved by: Councillor Kalivas
Seconded by: Councillor Bursey

THAT Report 2015-130-12 be received as information and that a report on
this matter be prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic
Development Planning Committee at a future meeting.

‘CARRIED

Councillor Deery, Chair, introduced the public meeting and read from the
prepared required comments.

‘Mr. Jonathan Faurschou announced that notice of the Public Meeting was
advertised in the Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper in November 5,

Page 1 of 2

Page 15 of 18
Economic Development and Planning Committee Publc Meeting Minutes
Tuesday, December 01, 2015

2015 and was circulated to property owners within 120.0 metres (400.0
feet) of the subject property. In addition, a sign was posted on the subject
property advising that the lands are the subject of an Application for
‘Amendment to the City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014.

Councillor Deery, Chair, asked that any person wanting further notice of the
Passage of the proposed amendment should give their full name, address
and postal code to the Secretary prior to leaving the meeting.

Councillor Deery reviewed the procedures for the Public Meeting

Mr. Jonathan Faurschou provided an overview of the proposed zoning
amendment.

‘Speaking for the applicant, Mr. Greg Mignon of Novatech addressed the
Committee. He offered a description of the conversion of the hotel to 2
senior’s residence. Mr. Mignon stated that the building Is structurally in good
shape. They will concentrate on replacing the windows, updating the fire
systems and re-cladding the exterior.

‘There was one person who completed the "Request for Information” sheet
and that record is kept in the Clerk's office.

The meeting adjourned at 6:21 pm.

Page 2 of 2

Page 16 of 18

Report to Economic Development and Planning Committee
January 5, 2016

2016-004-01 L. Murray
Request to Stop Up, Close and Dispose Deputy City Clerk
of a Portion of Charles Street S. MacDonald

to Brockville General Hospital City Clerk
Recommendation

‘THAT Council declare that Charles Street between Ormond Street and Bartholomew
Street to be surplus and authorize the stop up and close of said lands conditional

‘upon suitable resolution between the property owner of 135 Ormond Street and the
Brockville General Hospital concerning access to the 2" floor at 135 Ormond Street.

‘THAT the subject property be sold to the Brockville General Hospital for two dollars
(52.00) plus all associated costs on the transaction Inclusive of publication notices,
survey and legal costs subject to easements to water, sewer, Bell and Cogeco; and

THAT the Mayor and Clerk be authorized to execute all necessary documents to
Give effect to the intention thereof.


Page 17 of 18

2016-04-01
‘Stop-up, Close and Dispose of Charles Street Page 2
Origin

In June of 2015, a request was received from FOTENN Consultants Inc. retained by
Brockuille General Hospital (BGH) to assist with obtaining municipal planning
approvals to permit additional development on hospital lands, and to acquire the
Portion of Charles Street between Bartholomew Street and Ormond Street.

Analysis

BGH intends to construct an approximately 16,000 square metre addition on the
east side of the existing hospital complex. To support the development, BGH has
acquired several properties north of Charies Street to accommodate additional
vehicle parking.

In order to allow the integration of the newly acquired lands north of Charles Street
and the existing hospital site in a safe and functional development, BGH is
requesting that Charles Street be closed as a municipal roadway. The roadway will
be incorporated into the site development and still function as a vehicular and
pedestrian route.

While staff are in support of the request, some concerns have been identified:

1, Loss of annual parking meter revenue (approximately $35,000)

2. Sanitary and storm services located under Charles Street ~ need for
easement

3. Accessible access to the upper floor at 135 Ormond Street which is presently
from Charles Street - discussions currently underway between property
owner of Medical Arts Building and BGH

4, Increase traffic on Bartholomew Street (near Pearl Street East) of delivery
and service vehicles

In addition to the rezoning of Charles Street, consistent with the zoning for the
entire assembly of land, item no. 4 (above) will be addressed in future reports.

The procedure to close 2 public highway has been significantly streamlined by
changes to the Municipal Act, 2001. It involves the followin:

‘+ Public notice of the municipality's intention to pass the by-law; and
‘+ Registration of a certified copy of the bylaw on title

‘There is no longer a requirement to first offer the sale of land to the abutting
property owners at a pre-established price.

Notice of the City’s intention to stop up and close Charles Street was sent to:

Enbridge Gas
Bell Canada

Cogeco Cable

Ontario Hydro Services Inc.

Page 18 of 18

2016-004-01
Stop-up, Close and Dispose of Charles Street Page 3

Bell and Cogeco responded indicating that easements would be required for
underground services.

Financial Consideration
Transfer of the property is expected to be complete in the second quarter of 2016.

‘There will be a loss of revenue associated with the removal of the parking meters
on Charles Street. The anticipated reduction in parking revenues was taken into
consideration during the preparation of the 2016 operating budget. The street
meter revenues were reduced by $20,000 for 2016. A further $15,000 will be
removed from the 2017 operating budget. The lost revenue will reduce the annual
surplus from the Parking Operating budget thereby decreasing the amount of
money transferred to the Parking Reserve Fund. The Parking Reserve Fund is used
for purchasing lands for parking purposes, replace parking operating equipment
including meters, repaving and other major maintenance projects of the parking
lots.

All costs associated with the stop-up, close and transfer of Charles Street will be
borne by BGH.

‘Mactonald, CMO ~
[Certity City Clerk ity Clerk

D. Dick, CPA 5, Casselman
Director of Corporate Services City Manager

