Fal Public Meeting

BROCKVILLE Economic Development &
crore Plani

Tuesday, March 06, 2018,
City Hall, Council Chambers

COMMITTEE MINUTES

Committee Members:
Councillor M. Kalivas, Chair

Councillor J. Baker

Councillor L. Bursey

Councillor D. LeSueur

Councillor Mayor D. Henderson, Ex-Officio

Other Members:
Councillor T. Blanchard

Stat
네. McGinnis, Planner II
L. Murray, Deputy City Clerk (Recording Secretary)

넶he Chair called the meeting to order at 6:00 pm.
REPORT
1. 2018-028-03
Proposed Amendments to the
Official Plan and Zoning By-law 050-2014
100 Stewart Boulevard, Brockville
Moved by: Councillor Baker
THAT Report 2018-028-03 be received as information and that a report on
this matter be prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic
Development Planning Committee (EPD) at a future meeting.
CARRIED

Councillor Kalivas announced the Public Meeting procedure.

네. McGinnis introduced the report and application.

Page 1 of 2

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Meeting Minutes
Tuesday, March 06, 2018

네. McGinnis announced that Notice of the Public Meeting was advertised in the
Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper and the Brockville This Week on
February 1, 2018 and was circulated to property Owners within 120.0 metres
(400.0 feet) of the subject property and various Agencies and Departments. In
addition, signs were posted on the subject property advising that the lands are the
subject of an Application for Amendment to City of Brockville Official Plan and
Zoning By-law 050-2014.

Councillor Kalivas, Chair, asked that any person wanting further notice of the
passage of the proposed amendments should give their full name, address, e-mail
and postal code to the Secretary prior to leaving the meeting,

Councillor Kalivas reviewed the procedures for the Public Meeting.

네. McGinnis provided an overview of the proposed amendments to the official plan
and zoning by-law.

넶om Gallivan, Developer and Greg Minion, Consultant from Novatech were in
attendance and offered further details on the project.

넱o persons spoke in opposition.
넱o person completed the Request for Information form.

The meeting adjourned a 6:17 pm.

Page 2 of 2

