QO Economic Development &

BROCKVILLE Planning Committee
Tuesday, June 05, 2018, 4:15 pm
COMMITTEE MINUTES City Hall, Council Chambers

Members Present:
Councillor M. Kalivas, Chair
Councillor J. Baker
Councillor L. Bursey
Councillor D. LeSueur

Stat
C. Cosgrove, Director of Operations

D. Dick, Director of Corporate Services

L. Murray, Deputy City Clerk (Recording Secretary)
R. Nolan, Director of Economic Development

‘The Chair called the meeting to order at 4:15 pm.
DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST

Nil.

REPORTS FROM BOARDS AND COMMITTEES

Brockville Public Library
Emily Farrell, CEO

Emily Farrell highlighted the Brockville Public Library's 2017 Annual Report
and discussed future plans.

‘STAFF REPORTS

1. 2018-066-06
Marina Market Needs Analysis

Moved by: Councillor LeSueur
THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee receive for

Information the Marina Market Needs Analysis report; and

Page 1 of 3

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Minutes -
Tuesday, June 05, 2018

THAT the findings of the report form part of the Waterfront Adhoc
Committee's community consultation on waterfront development initiatives.

CARRIED
Rob Nolan reviewed the report for the Committee.

Councillor Baker asked what the feeling was for the seasonal boaters with the
prospect of being moved to St. Lawrence Park (SLP).

Conal said they haven't had that conversation yet, because the plans are still up in
the air. Conal added that the City currently leases part of the municipal harbour
from the Department of Fisheries and Oceans based on our revenues we pay 20%.
This would not be the case if it were moved it to SLP.

Councillor Baker asked if there is a waiting list for slips in the municipal harbour.
Conal indicated that on occasion they do have waiting lists for certain sizes of
boats.

Councillor Baker wondered if the Tall Ships Marina was at capacity.

Conal stated that their numbers are part of the survey but they are not broken out
they are included in the overall numbers.

Councillor Kalivas was not in favour of the option to build a new marina east of
Blockhouse Island. He does however like some of the lower cost options.

Conal stated that the report recommendations will be part of the Waterfront Adhoc
Committee's (WAC) Open House to be held at the Brockville Memorial Centre on
June 18, 2018 from 5 to 8 pm. Once feedback is received from the public the WAC
will further review the proposed options.

Councillor Baker asked if these projects are included in the 10 year capital plan.
Conal responded that they are not.

Page 2 0f 3

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Minutes -
Tuesday, June 05, 2018

ADJOURNMENT
Moved by: Councillor Bursey
THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee adjourned its meeting
until the next regular meeting scheduled for July 3, 2018.

CARRIED

The meeting adjourned at 4:58 pm.

Page 3 of 3

