QO Economic Development &

BROCKVILLE Planning Committee
Tuesday, September 04, 2018, 4:00 pm
COMMITTEE MINUTES City Hall, Council Chambers:

Members Present:
Councillor M. Kalivas, Chair
Councillor J. Baker

Councillor L. Bursey

Councillor D. LeSueur

Mayor D. Henderson, Ex-Officio

Other Member Present:
Councillor P. Deery

Stat
D. Dick, Director of Corporate Services

D. Golledge, Administrative Coordinator (Planning)
S. MacDonald, City Clerk

A. McGinnis, Planner II

L. Murray, Deputy City Clerk (Recording Secretary)
R. Nolan, Director of Economic Development

M. Pascoe Merkley, Interim City Manager

‘The Chair called the meeting to order at 4:00 pm.

DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST
Nil.

DELEGATIONS AND PRESENTATIONS.

1. Amendments to SPCA for Bridlewood Manor
John Bonser

J. Bonser addressed the Committee introducing two of his neighbours, J,
Dickie and E. LeClair. J. Bonser stated that the homes were built before
Bridlewood Manor was constructed. He feels that the site plan shows trees
as a buffer between the residential properties and the Manor, and the trees
should remain in perpetuity. J. Bonser recited several areas in the Zoning
By-law and Site Pian Control Manual that he believes contradict the current
situation.

Page 1 of 5

Economic Development and Planning (EDP) Committee Minutes -
Tuesday, September 04, 2018

Councillor Baker indicated he had visited the site and feels the hedge
should remain.

Councillor Kalivas Chair of the Committee requested that staff speak to the
Management of Bridlewood Manor to see if some kind of agreement can be
reached and report back to Council next week.

CORRESPONDENCE

Nil.

REPORTS FROM BOARDS AND COMMITTEES

Nil.

STAFF REPORTS

2018-094-09
Extension of Draft Plan Approval Part Of Lot 11, Concession 2
Rockford Forest Subdivision

Owner: Cathedral Enterprises Ltd.

Agent: Matthew Eyre

File: 087-14501

Moved by: Councillor Bursey

THAT Council for the Corporation of the City of Brockville, grants an
extension to draft approval of the Rockford Forest Subdivision, being
described as Part of Lot 11, Conc. 2, City of Brockville, County of Leeds, to
15 October 2021.

CARRIED

UNFINISHED BUSINESS

Page 2 of 5

2018-021-03
Municipal Accommodation Tax Allocation

M. Pascoe Merkley stated that this matter has been before the Committee
twice before and needs to have a path forward.

Councillor Baker asked if further consultation with the hoteliers had taken
place. M. Pascoe Merkley replied that consultation had taken place prior to
the initial report but nothing since then to her knowledge.

Economic Development and Planning (EDP) Committee Minutes -
Tuesday, September 04, 2018

A small committee will be struck with Councillor Kalivas as Chair; they will
revise this proposal and review the allocation of funding.

Councillor Baker would like to see this in place before the next term of
Council.

Moved by: Mayor Henderson
THAT a committee be struck with Councillor Kalivas as Chair to revise this
proposal and review the allocation of funding,

CARRIED

NEW BUSINESS - REPORTS FROM MEMBERS OF COUNCIL

1. Live Streaming of Council and Committee Meetings
(Councillor Bursey)

Moved by: Councillor Bursey

Whereas our local media's full resources are limited, and can often create or
nurture misinformation;

Whereas other municipalities across Ontario and beyond are currently facing
similar challenges with how to best articulate their messages, and craft
effective means of sharing legislation and data;

‘And whereas cost effective technology exists which can help this corporation
to better share and stream proceedings utilizing a user friendly medium;

‘Therefore be it resolved that the council of the Corporation of the City of,
Brockville direct staff to provide options with the direct intention of
Implementing the most current and cost effective Internet filming and
streaming technology to assist our local media in providing coverage of
council and committee meetings happening in this chamber.

REFERRED TO 2019 BUDGET

Page 3 of 5

Economic Development and Planning (EDP) Committee Minutes -
Tuesday, September 04, 2018

Page 4 of 5

Tiny Homes
(Councillor Bursey)

Moved by: Councillor Bursey

Whereas Tiny Homes have proven to be an economical, environmentally
sustainable and easily constructed housing formula by way of lowering
building and purchasing costs, and reducing carbon footprints by reducing
housing sizes;

Whereas no current procedural bylaw exists under the Official Plan or
Planning Act for the City of Brockville;

Whereas Tiny Homes would assist private sector developers and the City of
Brockville planning staff in delivering affordable housing and affordable
home ownership options for our citizens, which was committed to as part of
the 20 Year Official Plan for the City of Brockville;

Whereas the Province of Ontario has recently modernized official plan bylaws
to include granny suites and garden suites, creating new opportunities for
municipalities to work around square footage zoning restrictions to provide
new housing builds;

‘And whereas our community would take a proactive and progressive step
towards potentially modernizing our housing stock by being one of the first
municipalities in Ontario to create a new zoning bylaw to incorporate Tiny
Homes;

‘Therefore be it resolved that we direct our planning staff to draft options for
us to consider as the Corporation of the City of Brockville, with the intention
of adopting Tiny Homes provisions.

CARRIED
National Housing Strategy Review
(Councillor Bursey)

Moved by: Councillor Bursey

THAT the National housing Strategy Review report as prepared by Councillor
Bursey be received for information purposes.

CARRIED

Economic Development and Planning (EDP) Committee Minutes -
Tuesday, September 04, 2018

4. AMO Conference Review
(Councillor Bursey)

Moved by: Councillor Bursey

THAT the AMO 2018 Conference Review report as prepared by Councillor
Bursey be received for information purposes.

CARRIED
MEDIA QUESTION PERIOD

CONSENT AGENDA

Moved by: Councillor Bursey

THAT the following items be placed on Consent Agenda and forwarded to Council
for Consideration:

1. 2018-094-09
Extension of Draft Plan Approval Part of Lot 11, Concession 2
Rockford Forest Subdivision
2. National Housing Strategy Review
3. AMO Conference Review
CARRIED
ADJOURNMENT
Moved by: Councillor Baker
THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee adjourned its meeting

until the next regular meeting scheduled for October 2, 2018

CARRIED

The meeting adjourned at 5:03 pm.

Page 5 of 5

