Page 1 of 19

Economic Development and
Planning Committee

Tuesday, March 6, 2018, 6:00 pm

City Hall, Council Chambers

Committee Members Areas of Responsibility
Councillor M. Kalivas, Economic Development Economic Development
Chair Planning Advisory Team
Councillor J. Baker Chamber of Commerce Museum Board
Councillor L. Bursey DBIA Ubrary Board
Councillor D. LeSueur Heritage Brockville Arts Centre
Mayor D. Henderson, Tourism
Ex-Officio

Page PUBLIC MEETING

AGENDA

Report

2-19 1, 2018-028-03

Proposed Amendments to the
Official Plan and Zoning By-law 050-2014
100 Stewart Boulevard, Brockville

THAT Report 2018-028-03 be received as information and that a
report on this matter be prepared by staff for consideration of the
Economic Development Planning Committee (EPD) at a future
meeting.

Page 2 of 19

21Feb2018
REPORT TO THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE - PUBLIC
MEETING ~ 6 MARCH 2018

2018.028-03,

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE D. DICK
OFFICIAL PLAN AND ZONING BY-LAW DIRECTOR OF PLANNING (Acting)
050-2014, 100 STEWART BOULEVARD, ‘ANDREW MCGINNIS.
CITY OF BROCKVILLE PLANNER I

OWNER: — ROYAL BROCK RETIREMENT LIVING INC.

AGEN KAYLA BLAKELY, NOVATECH.
FILES: 09-10 AND D14-028.s0.2014)
RECOMMENDATION

THAT Report 2018-028.03 be received as information and that a report on this matter
be prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic Development Planning
Committee (EPD) at a future meeting,

PURPOSE

‘To provide information for purposes of conducting a Public Meeting under the Planning
Act respecting Application for Amendment to the Official Plan for the City of Brockville
and Application for Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014,

BACKGROUND

(On 19 January 2018, Ms. Kayla Blakely, acting as Agent for Royal Brock Retirement
Living Inc., Owner of 100 Stewart Boulevard, filed applications for amendment to City of
Brockville Official Plan and to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014, which, if
approved, would permit the subject lands to be developed with a new ‘Apartment
Building" without the need to have commercial occupancy on the ground floor.

The lands which are the subject of the application are located on the west side of
‘Stewart Boulevard, south of Central Avenue, north of Schofield Avenue, east of Perth
Street, as shown on Schedule “A” attached hereto. The site, measuring approximately
2.9 hectares was the former “Skyline Hotel’, "The Royal Brock Hotel” and most recently
the “Royal Brock Retirement Residence’. ' Since 2016, the property has undergone
extensive renovations and is now occupied by a 77 unit “Retirement Home” with
associated dining lounge, recreational space and a large amount of underutilized
parking,

In September 2017 the site received Site Plan Approval for the construction of a Mixed
Use and Commercial Building to be located on the property. Due to market trends and
research completed by the owner, they have now switched their focus and are

2018028-03 Page £299 Sof 19,
Putte Meeting - Proposed Amendments to Offa Plan and Zoning By-Law 050-204

‘ao Stewart Soutvard

Owner Royal rock Retirement Living ne.

oone Raya Baty, Mowesch

Fier! Babstoana Dis ozbeemg

proposing to construct a new Five (6) storey (17.5 metre) apartment building containing
Forly Three (43) rental apartment dwelling units. A proposed site plan showing the
existing and proposed buildings is attached as Schedule “B” to this report. Schedule
C”, to this report is a planning rationale completed by the applicant.

ANALYSIS

Zoning and Official Plan Information:

Official Plan: Mixed Use and Commercial Area within the Mixed
Use Node.
Proposed OP Amendment: Mixed Use and Commercial Area - Site Specific to

Permit a residential apartment building to be
‘constructed without the requirement to have ground
floor commercial space.

Existing Zoning: 2-8 General Commercial Special Exception Zone

Proposed Zoning: 2-8 General Commercial Special Exception Zone
(amended) to add an Apartment Building at a
maximum overall height of 17.5 metres in addition to
uses currently permitted in the C2-9 Zone.

Total Area: 13,086,0 m?
Frontage — Stewart Bivd. 156.7 m
Frontage ~ Schofield Ave, 75.01m
Frontage ~Central Avenue: 62.0 m
Frontage ~ Perth Street: 13.0m

‘The subject lands are currently occupied by a Seventy Seven (77) unit “Retirement
Home" with associated dining lounge, recreational space and ample amounts of
parking. Photos of the subject property are attached as Schedule “D”to this report.

‘Surrounding Land Use:

North: Lands located to the north (across Central Avenue West) are zoned R6 Multiple
Residential Zone; occupied by an older apartment building,

East: Lands located to the east are zoned R2 — Single Detached Residential Zone;
‘occupied by older single detached dwellings fronting on Stewart Blvd,

Hin ting Props Amends fil Pana Zaring By 0.014
fone pore

See es rman ig

coe ra ete

fe Sai

‘South: Lands located to the south are zoned:

R2-Single Detached Residential Zone; occupied by older single detached
‘dwellings fronting on Schofield Avenue and Stewart Blvd,

R5-Multiple Residential Zone; occupied by an older apartment complex fronting
‘on Schofield Avenue.

C16 Local Commercial Special Exception Zone; occupied by a personal
service establishment,

R3-General Residential Zone; occupied by a semi-detached dwelling.
West: Lands located to the west (on Perth Street) are zoned:
1-5 Local Commercial Special Exception Zone; occupied by an older stone

building permiting a personal service establishment and one apartment unit; or
two residential apartment units.

R3-General Residential Zone (immediately adjacent to the Royal Brock
property and across Perth Street at Central Avenue West); occupied by older
single detached residential dwelling units.

R3-General Residential Zone (west side of Perth Street); occupied by a mix of
older residential dwelling units,

R5-Multiple Residential Zone (west side of Perth Street); occupied by an older
twelve (12) unit apartment building

Comments Received are summarized below:

1. Sandra MacDonald, City Clerk, Clerks Office
+ No.comment at this time,

2. Brent Caskenette, CBO, Building Services Division, Planning Department:
+ No concerns.

3. Steve Allen, Supervisor of Engineering, Environmental Services Department:
‘+ Not opposed to the applications.

4. Conal Cosgrove, Director of Operations, Operations Department:
+ No comments with respect to the applications.

2o10.028-03

Public Meeting - Proposed Amendments to Oficial Plan and Zoning By-Law 050-2014

400 Stewart Goutevara
Owner Royal Brock Retirement Living Ine
‘Agent. Kayla Blakely, Novatech

Pies! DoSeand Bi4d28e ma

5. Greg Healy, Chief

Prevention Officer
No concem with the proposed amendments,

6. Scott Fraser, Chief of Police

No issues.

7. Brockville Municipal Accessibilty Advisory Committee, Doug Hone

No concer, We support this project.

8. Ministry of Transportation, Stephen Kaputsa MCIP, RPP.

No concems. The development is just outside our control area,

8. Hydro One, Local, Krista Gannon

No issues with the application.
‘44kv connection may be required due to projected customer loading

10. Enbridge — North York, Alice Coleman — Municipal Planning Coordinator

No objection.

11. Neighbour

‘The proposal appears to be attractive and should enhance our
neighbourhood and benefit the seniors of the community
Concerns:
‘© Assolid fence (not chain link) would be erected around the perimeter
Of the construction site fo stop the dust and garbage from leaving
the site. Construction materials and garbage was an issue in
theneighbourhood when the existing building was being renovated
and we did contact the city to register a complaint. The situation
did improve. We are now trying to be proactive so that a similar
situation does not exist for the duration ofthis project.
© The sewer system can handle the increased load, including
rainwater runoff, without causing any hardship or inconvenience to
the neighbourhood.
Construction would take place during reasonable daytime hours.
No excessive lighting be installed, both during construction or as a
Permanent feature of the building that would shine into
neighbouring proeprties.
© We would be notified well in advance of any events that would
impede our access to our homes and driveways, and that any
‘damage to any of our property caused by any aspect of the project.
be repaired or replaced,

page fa0e 5 of 19

senna, age $2086 0419
Hinting Propet Anednors fel Pn sd Zring Baw 0.2014

Seen eaaela

See ee ntrmet ia

Soc Rusa tienes

Flee! 08-10 and Die B28hexn0
sssion:

1. Appropriateness of the requested Official Plan Amendment to not require
‘ground floor commercial occupancy;

Appropriateness of the requested Zoning By-law Amendment to permit an

“Apartment Building” at a maximum height of 17.5 metres;

Compatibility of proposed use with the surrounding neighbourhood; and,

Parking and traffic.

Aeon

POLICY IMPLICATIONS

‘The contents of this report are provided for information purposes for the Public Meeting.
Following the Public Meeting, Planning Department Staff will prepare a report which will
include review and consideration of policies that are relevant to the requested
amendments,

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS.

‘A complete application for Amendment to City of Brockville Official Plan and
Amendment to the City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 has been received,
including all applicable fees. Any additional costs relating to the re-designation,
rezoning, servicing the lands and construction of the new building is the responsibilty of
the owner.

CONCLUSION

‘A Report on this matter, including a detailed analysis of the proposed amendments,
review and consideration of the issues raised at the Public Meeting and a
recommendation from Planning Staff, will be prepared for consideration of the Economic

Development Planning Commitee at a future nesting. . :

David Dick, CPA, CA ‘Andrew MeGinnis, MCIP, RPP, Dip. M.M.
Director of Corporate Services and Planner Il

Director of Planning (Acting)

B. Casselman

City Manager

Page 7 of 19

SCHEDULE “A” TO REPORT 2018-028-03


oe | SCHEDULE “B” TO REPORT 2018-028-03



of 19


Page 11 of 19
SCHEDULE “C” TO REPORT 2018-028-03

Een ane dane
January 18, 2018

City of Brockvite
Planning Department

1 King Street West, P.O. Box 6000
Brockville, ON KEV 7A5

Attention: David Dick, CPA, CA, Acting Director of Planning
Dear Mr. Dick

Reference: 100 Stewart Boulevard
Applications for Official Pan Amendment and Zoning By-law Amendment
Planning Rationale
‘Our File No. 115146

Novatech has been retained to fle applications for official plan amendment and zoning by-law
‘amendment on behatf of Royal Brock Retirement Living Ine. or the property known municipally as
100 Stewart Boulevard. This Planning Rationale has been prepared in support of these applications
‘which propose amendments to the City’s Official Plan and Zoning By-law In order to accommodate
the development of a fve-storey seniors apartment dweling on the subject lands. The fllowing letter
‘outlines the various aspects of the proposal, demonstrates how the proposed development is
‘consistent with the Provincial Polcy Statement and provides the rationale for the requested
‘amendments

‘Accompanying tis letter are the following tems:

‘Application for Amendment to the Official Plan;

‘Application for Amendment to the Zoning By-law,

Site Pian, Susan D. Smith Architect, Drawing A-SP1;
Elevations, Susan 0. Smith Architect, Drawings Ad & AS;

Floor Plans, Susan D. Smith Architect, Drawings At ~ A3;
(Cheque in the amount of $3,475 for the concurent applications.

Copies of the above noted architectural drawings wll be provided in POF format separately by email
Site Description & Neighbourhood Context.

“The subject property is located on the west se of Stewart Boulevard, between Central Avenue and
Schofield Avenue, and is legally described as Part of Lot 2 on Registered Pan 238, Lots C and D
‘and Part of Lot B on Registered Plan 245, and Part of Park Lot D, Block 40 on Registered Plan 67,
in the City of Brockile, County of Leeds. The site has a lot area of approximately 13,084.2 m2 (1.3
ha) and lot frontages of approximately 157 m along Stewart Boulevard, 75 m along Schofield Avenue,
‘62 m along Central Avenue and 13 m along Perth Street. For the purposes ofthis letter, Stewart
Boulevard is regarded as traveling in a north-south orientation

Ste 20,240 Mecha Coupland Die Osim ON KIM IPG Tek 6132549643 Fax: 6132545867 wow noreclvengcom

Page 12 of 19

NO’ H

geen tower dana

‘The subject property is currently occupied by a five-storey retirement residence known as Royal
Brock Retirement Living. The building was recently renovated and converted from a former hotel use,
‘and now includes a total of 77 retirement suites and offers various services and amenities to the
residents. The property was also recenty the subject of a site plan application to permit the
‘development of a four storey mixed commerciaVresidential bulding containing four commercial units
‘on the ground flor and 28 residential units onthe upper floors, Approval was received in September
2017 for the construction of the new linked-bulding to be situated to the south of the existing
Fetizoment residence and connected to the existing building by means of a two-storey link. The
balance ofthe property consists of landscaped open space, amenity area and surface parking areas
which accommodate a total of 148 parking spaces, all fr use by residents and visitors of both the
‘existing and future buldings.

‘The subject lands abut and are oriented towards Stewart Boulevard which is a major transportation
corridor and recognized as a gateway tothe City as it connects the Stewart Boulevard and Highway
401 interchange to the downtowniwaterfront area. The existing type of development along this
corridor consists primarily of a mix of residential and commercial uses. The form of development
immediately opposite to the subject property along Stewart Boulevard is characterized as low-density
residential uses in the form of predominantly single-detached qwelings. Opposite to the site along
both Central Avenue and Schofield Avenue is residential development ranging from single detached
‘dwelings to low-rise apartment building. The abutting propor tothe west are currently occupied
by single-detached dwellings and personal service establishments.

“The subject property, along with the abutting lands to the north and south along Stewart Boulevard,
are designated as Mixed Use and Commercial Area and are within the Stewart Boulevard/Mighway
401 Gateway Mixed Use Node as shown on Schedule 1 to the Ciy of Brockville Offical Plan. The
subject property is zoned C2-9 (General Commercial Zone, Special Exception Zone 8) as shown on
‘Schedule A to the City of Brockvile Comprehensive Zoning By-law. Special Excoption 9 Zone, as
recently amended, establishes that “the uses permitted in the C2-0-General Commercial Special
Exception Zone shall be those uses permitted in the C2 Zone and a retirement home’.

Proposed Official Plan and Zoning By-law Amendments

‘Amendments to the City's Official Plan and Zoning By-law are required in order to accommodate
proposed modifications tothe presently approved plans forthe new inked-builing tobe constructed
{o the south of the existing five-storey retirement home building. The owner wishes to construct a
five-storey, exclusively residential use building to be marketed and managed as seniors rental
apartment units. It's intended thatthe four ground-floor commercial units. be replaced with four
residential units, and afith storey be constructed to accommodate ten addtional residential uit,
for a total of 43 dwelling units. The site would function as one complex providing housing options for
senioretred residents in the form of both ratirement sultes and full dweling units, wth access to
shared amenity and recreational areas, as well as optional services, including food preparation and
personal and assistive care available to all residents

‘Amendments tothe Offical Plan relating to permitted use and minimum ground floor height for new
development within the Mxed Use and Commercial Area are being requested fo permit the proposed
‘ive-storey senio’s apartment building. Additionally, amendments to the Zoning By-law relating to
Permitted use and maximum permitted building height within the C2-9 Zone are required

Site 200,240 Michael Coupland Dine, Omava ON KIM IPS Tet 6132549643 Fax 6152545867 wenroonsech-engcom

Page 13 of 19,

‘Proposed Official Plan Amendment

‘The purpose ofthe offical plan amendment application is to add a Ste Specific Policy Area (SSPA)
Under Section 4.5.4 ofthe Official Pan in order to recognize an exclusively residential use bulking
as a permitted use on the subject lands. itis proposed to amend the Official Plan to introduce the
{folowing policy in Section 4.5.4 and amend Schedule 6 accordingly

“SPA 4.5.4X Is identifed on Schedule 6 and relates to those lands known as 100 Stewart
Boulevard. Notwithstanding the polcies of Sections 3.4.1.5 and 4.5.2.2 of this Plan, where a use
permitted pursuant to Section 4.5.2.3 of ths Plan is located on the subject lands, residential uses
‘may be located on the ground-foor of a residential use building, and shall have a minimum ground
foorto-foor height of 3.5m.”

This proposed policy would permit medium and high density residential development on the subject
lands provided a use described in Section 4.5.2.3 as “special needs housing, senior citzen's homes
cr simiar housing facies for senior citizens, including nursing homes” is also located onthe subject
lands. Additonal, the requested minimum ground flor height of 3.5 m would allow forthe floor
‘elevations of the proposed bulding to match those of the existing building In order to facilitate the
construction of the ink between buildings.

‘Athough the above policy would pormit a residential use building on the subject property, the
proposed amendment maintains the abilty to intoduce mixed-use, commercial, and other forms of
‘development permitted inthe Mixed Use and Commercial Area in the future.

‘Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment

‘The purpose of this zoning by-law amendment application is to add an apartment dweling as
Permitted use within he C2-9 zone, and request an increased maximum permitted building height of
175 m.tis the intent thatthe existing exception zone text remain, however, be modified as folows:

“The uses permitted in the C2-9 Zone shall be those uses permitted in the C2 Zone, a retirement
‘home and an apartment dweling. The maximum bulging height within the C2-9 Zone shall be 17.5.
metres.”

‘The requested mosiication to the C29 Zone would accommodate the addition ofa fith storey tothe
Planned four-storey bullding and allow for an apartment dweling to form part of the relitement
residence complexin order to offer fully-independent dwelling units fr senior residents, As amended,
the C2-9 Zone would continue to permit commercial uses, as well as mixed commercialresidential
bullings, inthe event that the owner wishes to pursue commercial development in the future

Planning Policy Analysis:
Stat 14

‘The Provincial Policy Statement (PPS) came into effect on April 30, 2014, and provides policy

rection on matters of provincial interest, including polices that promote building strong sustalnable

‘communities, managing resources, and protecting public health and safety

‘Section 1 ofthe PPS sets out policies on building strong and healthy communities, notably policies
‘hich promote growth and development within settlement areas, including intensification wahin bul

Se 20,210 Meche Coupland Die, Omron ON KIM ID Tek 6182549645 Fax: 6132545867 wrrnorech-engeces

Page 14 of 19

pee terdeape

‘up areas. These policies also require that land use pattems be based on densities and a mix of land
uses which effcienty use land, available infrastructure and public service facies, and are
‘supportive of transit and active transportation. Further, Section 1 encourages the provision of an
appropriate range and mix of housing types and densi, including affordable housing and housing
for older persons, to meet requirements for curent and future residents

“The proposed development responds favourably to these policies by promoting the intensified use
‘ofthe site in a manner whichis appropriate within the context ofthe surrounding land uses and which
ceffciently uses exsting infrastructure and public service facies. The proposal represents. an
‘opportunity for intensification in the form of medium density residential development in a suitable
location which well serviced by the local transit system and existing active transportation networks.
Further, the provsion of rental seniors apartment units contributes to @ range of affordable housing
‘options designed for senior residents which promotes aging-in-place within the community

Section 2 of the PPS sets out policies for the protection of natural hertage, water, agricuiture,
‘minerals. and petroleum, mineral aggregates, and cultural resources, all for their economic,
‘environmental and social benefits. Section 3 of the PPS addresses the protection of public health
‘and safety through polices that relate to natural hazards and human-made hazards. These intrest
‘of the PPS have been reviewed in the context of the ste location, and it has been determined that
the proposed development does not confct with provincial interests in Sections 2 or 3 of the PPS.

‘Based on the foregoing, the proposal is consistent withthe relevant policies ofthe Provincial Policy
‘Statement.

($y of Brockuille Official Pan (2012)

‘The City's Oficial Plan identifies the propery at 100 Stowart Boulevard as within the Mixed Use and
Commercial Area designation, and forming part of the Stewart Boulevard/Highway 401 Gateway
Mixed Use Node. The policies of Section 3.221 of the Plan speak to Mived Use Nodes and
Corridors, and provide that these areas are to be the logical focus for intensive development over
time. AS'a secondary mixed-use node, the Stewart Boulevard / Highway 401 Gateway wil
‘accommodate mixed employment, retal commercial, hotelmotel accommodations, community Uses,
‘and mixed density residential uses within a streetscape design that celebrates the importance ofthe
‘area as the “doorstep* forthe City from Highway 404

Directing higher density development to Mixed Use Nodes such as the Stewart Boulevard Highway
401 Gateway efficiently use of and, infrastructure and services, and promotes continuous grovah in
{2 manner which is respectful of surrounding mature neighbourhoods. The proposed apartment and
fetirement home uses are compatible with adjacent and uses, and the level of density is appropriate
for the site given its location along a major transportation corridor with access to transit. The
evelopment represents a density of approximately $2 units per hectare, which contributes to the
iy residential intensifcation targets for infil development and development of vacant or
‘underuiized land in bult-up areas.

‘Section 45 ofthe Official Pan provides policy direction relating to the Mixed Use and Commercial
‘Area designation, and Section 4.5.2 addresses permitted uses within this designation. Policy 3 under
‘Section 4.5.2 supports the development of special needs and senior etzen's housing, in accordance
With Section 4.4.3.21 ofthe Plan which speaks to design criteria for medium density residential uses.
Although the existing retrement home building is permitted pursuant to this policy, the proposed

‘St 20,29 Michael Cowpland Dae, cama ON KIM IPG Tel 6132549683. Fe 6132545867 wow.sonmecenpceen

Page 15 of 19

geese bares eo

tment building comprises dweling units and is, therefore, subject to Policy 2 regarding
‘medium and high density residential uses. Policy 2 provides that medium and high densi residential
uses are permitted within the Mixed Use and Commercial Ara, provided they are located above
{ground-floor commercial uses and designed in accordance wih the policies of Section 4.5.33
relating to built form eteria

It is proposed to amend the designation of the property such that residential development be
Permitted without the requirement for ground-floor commercial uses, provided a use described in
Policy 3's also located on the subject lands. This approach allows for development which responds
‘to present market demands, while maintaining the overall intent ofthe Plan to provide for @ range of
‘commercial and residential uses in higher density mixed use nodes.

‘As there is curently a surplus in vacant commercial unit in the immediate area and throughout the
City, the proposal wil provide senir’s housing to accommodate current demand for retirement units,
‘while maintaining the abiity to introduce commercial uses on the stein the future as demand for
these units increases over time. This is in keeping with the planned function of the Stewart
Boulevard/Highway 401 Gateway and supports to polices ofthe Plan which encourage the provision
‘of a mix of housing options, particularly to cater tothe needs ofthe aging population.

Sections 3.4.1 and 4.5.1 ofthe Pian outline land use, bul form and urban design objectives of the
City to promote safe and attractive neighbourhoods, The site design responds to these ctiteria by
proposing a compatible buit form in terms of height, massing, orientation and character, and
Providing appropriate setbacks, ample landscaping and buffering, safe access, adequate servicing,
high-quality amenity areas, and appealing streetscapes.

Section 3.4.1.3 provides citria to ensure building heights are compatible with neighbouring and
Uses and that development provides @ suitable transtion to adjacent stable residential
‘eighbourhoods, Both the proposed and existing buildings on the subject site respect the 45-degree
‘angular plane requirements under this Section, and are well st back from adjacent lat ines to ensure
there are no adverse impacts on adjacent development. Further, the use of architectural treatments,
Including various cladding materials and balconies arranged in columns along the facades, contribute
to architectural interest and aid in breaking up the facades to complement the adjacent Bult form.

‘Section 3.4.1.5 relates to ground floor heights for new development in the Mixed Use and Commercial
‘Area, and requires @ minimum ground floor height of 4.5 m to ensure consistent heights among
bulldngs and allow for the conversion of ground flor residential uses to commorcalretal of office
ses. A minimum ground floor height of 3.5 m is proposed inthe case ofthe apartment dwelling for
Structural and accessbilty reasons. Due to the grading of the subject property which slopes
significant downward tothe south, the two-storey ink betwoen the existing and proposed buildings
will connect the ground and second floors of the new building tothe basement and ground floors of,
the existing building. In order to match floor elevations, a foor-t-foor height of appreximatoly 3.5 m
's required to ensure function and barrier-free access. AS residents of the new apartment bulding
willbe encouraged to utlize the amenties and services provided within the retirement home building,
level access between buildings is important for accessibilty considerations. Permiting a reduced
‘minimum ground floor height also minimizes the overall height ofthe bullding such that remains
blow the top ofthe existing retirement home building.

Although the ground floor ofthe proposed bullding would have a minimum height of 3.5 m, the fagade
incorporates significant glazing, including large windows, a prominent main entrance and several
‘secondary entrances to the ground floor units, as well as enhanced bulking articulation to provide

Suite 200,240 Nica Copland Dive nama ON KIMIPG Tek 6132569665 Pax 6152545867 wrwsoratech-ngceom

Page 16 of 19

NOVAT=CH

tages tren una

visual interest slong the front facade. Further, as the bulding is set back from Stewart Boulevard by
‘approximately 16 m and is separated by the front parking area and considerable landscaping and
plantings, the ground floor height wll not disrupt patterns of height and use at grade established over
time as adjacent properties are developed in accordance withthe Mixed Use and Commercial Area
policies.

‘The proposed amendments to the Oficial Pan are desirable in order to permit the seniors apartment
dwelling use, which is in general accordance with the overall policy direction and design objectives
‘ofthe Plan which support compatible higher density development within Mixed Use Nodes and Moced
Use and Commercial Areas. The Stewartighway 401 Gateway is envisioned as a focal point for
{growth and development, and contemplates medium and high density residential uses as a permitted
form of development, provided the ground-floor consists of commercial uses. The proposed
‘amendment wil modty the policies of the Plan as they relate to the subject site to remove the
‘equitement for ground-floor commercial units within a residental building and reduce the minimum
{ground floor height requirement, provided the residential building is located on lands also occupied
by ause characterized as special needs housing, senior cizen’s homes or similar housing facilities
for senior citizens, This amendment does not prevent the development of commercial or mixed-use
buiiings in the future, it merely does not oblige commercial units within the proposed seniors
‘|apartment building so long as forms part of a complex which provides housing forthe senior or
special needs demographic.

14

‘Schedule A tothe City of Brockville Zoning By-law identifies the zoning of the subject lands as C2-9
(General Commercial Zone, Special Exception Zone 8) which permits @ range of non-residential
Uses, in addition to some residential uses including a retirement home use and apartment units
‘forming part ofa mixed commercialresidential bling. Itis proposed to modity the zoning provisions,
ofthe By-law as they relate tothe subject property to add an apartment dweling as a permitted use,
and permit a maximum building height of 17.5 m.

‘The Zoning By-law permits private bedroom and living units within a retirement home use, however,
does not contempiate the provision of dwelling units within a use of this nature. The 77 existing suites
‘within the rerement home are permitted in accordance with the definition fora retirement home,
however, asthe proposed nev units contain cooking facilities, they are considered dweling units, AS
‘dwelling units cannot form part ofa retirement home as per the zoning definition, and further as such
Units are located within an exclusively residential use building, an amendment is required to permit
‘an apartment dweling use on the subject property. The inclusion of an apartment dweling isin
keeping withthe predominantly residential neighbourhoods surrounding the ste, notably to the east,
‘west and south, and achieves a lovel of density expected for this area of the Ciy. Further, the
development provides a buffer between the commercial uses developed primary north of Central
‘Avenue within the Stewart Boulevard/Highway 401 Gateway, and the low-profile residential uses
along Stewart Boulevard extending south towards Front Avene,

‘As there is curently limited demand within the City for commercial space, an exclusively residential
se building would be more appropriate a this time to promote growth and intensification, The zoning
{or the subject site, as amended, would continue to permit commercial and non-residential uses
should development ofthis nature be pursued inthe future

‘Sut 20, 20 Metal Cowplnd Dae, Onaea ON KIMIP6 Tel 6132549643 Fa 6132545867 wwe nomueceng


Page 17 of 19

NO (CH

Speen Slaps

‘The proposed 43-unit seniors apartment dweling has been designed to comply with all provisions
and performance standards relating to apartment dwelings under Sections 3 and 6 of te Zoning By-
law, with the exception of the provision of Section 6.2 which establishes a maximum permitted
building height of 13.5 m within the C2 zone. tis proposed to construct the new inked-bulding with
‘a maximum height of approximately 17.5 m, as measured from the average finished grade along the
front fagade of the building tothe fop ofthe roof parapet. The existing retirement home building on
the property is legally non-complying with respect to building height and has an overall eight of
‘approximately 17 m a8 measured ffom adjacent finished grade. Although similar in height, the new
linked building wi appear as nearty a full storey lower than the existing bulking due to the significant
‘geodetic elevation variation ofthe site.

‘The requested increase in height would permit the addition of a fith storey to the approved four-
storey building and would bring the existing retirement bulding into compliance with the Zoning By-
‘aw in terms of height. Further, the additional height would alow for increased residential density in
«location which is wel suited to accommodate intensification. The development provides significant
setbacks from all lt lines and incorporates ample landscaping and plantings slong the adjacent
street frontages, as well as 2m high privacy fencing along shared at lines, to ensure the development
's respectful of the abuting and adjacent residential built form,

In closing, the proposed official plan and zoning amendments are desirable as they wil fclitate the
development ofthe linked apartment building and retirement home complex; one of is strongest
tributes being that it wil provide both housing and support services options for Brockville seniors,
‘anging from fuly-independent ling in conventional apartment units through toa signicant level of
Support within the suites contained in the retirement home. Through the provision of a range of
‘options inthe continuum of housing/care services, the complex wl faciitate aging in place for seniors
{and the elder, rather than obliging them to move as their needs change over time,

‘Thank you for your review and consideration ofthese applications. Please do not hesitate to contact
‘me should you require any additional information or carficaion with respec to that provided,

Yours try,

NOVATECH

cc. Tom Galivan, Galvan Developments

Shite 200,240 Mchael Coupland Dive, Onsen ON KAMIPG Te 6132549615 Fax 6132545867 wenrnoratec-engcom

Page 18 of 19

SCHEDULE “D” TO REPORT 2018-028-03


Page 19 of 19,


