Page

Page 1 of 6

Economic Development and

Plan
Tuesday, December 1, 2015,

1g Committee
0 pm

City Hall, Council Chambers

Committee Members Areas of Responsibility
Councillor P. Dery, Economic Development Economic Development
Chair Planning Advisory Team.
Councillor L. Bursey Chamber of Commerce Museum Board
Councillor M. Kalivas DBIA brary Board
Councillor D. LeSueur Heritage Brockville Arts Centre
Mayor D. Henderson, Tourism
Ex-Officio
PUBLIC MEETING
AGENDA
Item
1. 2015-130-12

Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014
100 Stewart Bivd. Royal Brock - Quality Hotel

Owner
Applicant: Novatech (Sarah McCormick)

‘oyal Brock Retirement Living Inc.

THAT Report 2015-130-12 be received as information and that a
report on this matter be prepared by staff for consideration of the
Economic Development Planning Committee at a future meeting.

Page 2 of 6

20 November 2015

REPORT TO THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE - PUBLIC
MEETING ~ December 1 2015

2015-130-12
PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO ZONING M, PASCOE MERKLEY
BY-LAW 050-2014, 100 STEWART BLVD., DIRECTOR OF PLANNING.
ROYAL BROCK ~ QUALITY HOTEL JONATHAN FAURSCHOU
OWNER: ROYAL BROCK RETIREMENT LIVING INC. PLANNER |

APPLICANT: NOVATECH (SARAH MCCORMICK)
FILE: D14-010 (12014)

RECOMMENDATION

THAT Report 2018-130-12 be received as information and that a report on this matter
be prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic Development Planning
Committee ata future meeting,

PURPOSE

To provide information for purposes of conducting a Public Meeting under the Planning
‘Act respecting an Application for Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-
2014,

BACKGROUND

Novatech, acting for the property owner, Royal Brock Retirement Living Inc., fled an
application for amendment to City of Brockvile Zoning By-law 050-2014 with respect to
lands legally described as Part of Park Lot D, Block 40, Compiled Plan 67, Clty of
Brockville, County of Leeds: municipal address 100 Stewart Blvd. The application for an
amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014 would modify the text of the current C2-9
General Commercial Special Exception Zone to permit those uses permitted in the C2
Zone, a mixed commercialresidential building and a retirement home.

‘The development proposal would convert the existing hotel to a retirement home, with
site layout and surface parking facilities generally remaining the same. The basement
level of the building has been, and will continue to be, used by The Pier Community
‘Outreach Centre.

‘As outed in correspondence dated October 8, 2015, received from Novatech with the
‘submission of the application, the requested amendment would accommodate the
‘conversion of the hotel into a retirement home, and would allow for conversion of the
‘xisting restaurant, fitness contre and other commercial spaces into a dining room and
‘amenity space forthe retirement home. Redevelopment of the subject property will take
place in two phases. The proposal would also accommodate future plans to convert


Page 3 of 6

zeiss90412 Page
ropa AerdmertoZvng Daw e204
Fie O84

some of the fitness centre area into retirement suites and additional amenity spaces
such as @ movie theatre, lounge and salon for retirement residents and potentially an
additional building on the lot. The amended C2-9 Zone would continue to permit
commercial uses and mixed commercialesidential buildings while removing the
requirement for commercial uses to be located within the ground floor of a retirement
home building.

ANALYSIS
Zoning and Official Plan Information:
Official Plan: Mixed Use and Commercial Area

Existing Zoning: C2-9 ~ General Commercial Special Exception Zone

Proposed Zoning: Modification to the 2-9 - General Commercial Spacial Exception
Zone to permit those uses permitted in the C2 Zone, a mixed
Commercialresidential building and a retirement home.

Site istics
‘The lands have a lot area of 13,088.0 m?, with lot frontages on Stewart Blvd. (158.7 m),
‘Schofield Avenue (75.0 m), Central Avenue West (62.0 m), and Perth Street (13.0 m).
‘The subject land is currently occupied by the former Royal Brock ~ Quality Hotel.

‘Schedule “A” to this report shows the location of the subject lands and existing site
improvements.

‘Surrounding Land Use:

North: Lands located to the north (across Central Avenue West) are zoned R6 Multiple
Residential Zone; occupied by an older apartment building.

East: Lands located to the east are zoned R2 — Single Detached Residential Zone;
‘occupied by single detached dwellings fronting on Stewart Blvd.

South: Lands located to the south are zoned:

R2-Single Detached Residential Zone; occupied by single detached dwellings
fronting on Schofield Avenue and Stewart Blvd,

5-Multiple Residential Zone; occupied by an older apartment complex fronting
(on Schofield Avenue.

C1-6 Local Commercial Special Exception Zon
service establishment.

‘occupied by @ personal


Page 4 of 6

peisisot2 Pages
Fropane Anarort Zoning By 0592014
Fe D160 mcm

R3-General Residential Zone; occupied by a semi-detached dwelling.
West: Lands located to the west (on Perth Street) are zoned:

C1-5 Local Commercial Special Exception Zone; occupied by an older stone
building permitting a personal service establishment and one apartment unit; or
two residential apartment units.

R3-General Residential Zone (immediately adjacent to the Royal Brock
property and across Perth Street at Central Avenue West); occupied by older
‘single detached residential dwelling units.

R3-General Residential Zone (west side of Perth Street); occupied by a mix of
residential dwelling units

R5-Muttiple Residential Zone (west side of Perth Street); occupied by an older
twelve (12) unit apartment building.

ments Re sui low:

41. Steve Allen, Supervisor of Engineering (memo dated November 06, 2015):
“The Environmental Services Department has reviewed the request for @ zoning by-
Jaw amendment dated November 5, 2015 that would allow for the conversion of the
‘existing site from a “hotel to a retirement home with or without the commercial uses”
‘and we are not opposed to the application.”

2. Conal Cosgrove, Director of Operations (memo dated November 14, 2018:
“The Operations Department has no comments with respect to this application.”

3. Greg Healy, Chief Fire Prevention Officer (memo dated November 20, 2018):

“After reviewing the proposal for the above-noted project, please be advised that this
Department has no fire safety concerns at this time.

We would suggest circulation of drawings for the building permit.”

4. Brent Caskenette, Chief Building Official (memo dated November 08,2015):
“Our review of the Zoning By-law Amendment notice for the above noted subject site
development has been completed and at this time would advise that we have no

‘concerns, provided that the applicant obtain the necessary permits for creation of
‘additional units and proposed renovations.

Page 5 of 6

amss2042 Page
Froponeé Ameren a Zaring iow 092016
Fie O11

The applicant should be made aware that a review of complete construction
drawings at the time of application for a building permit may reveal requirements of
the Ontario Building Code, not evident as part of this notice, which may affect the
site development.”

No comments from the Public have been received to-date.
Potential issues for Discussion:
1. Appropriateness of the requested zoning,

2. Compatibility of proposed uses with the surrounding neighbourhood.
3. Future development opportunities.

POLICY IMPLICATIONS

‘The contents ofthis report are provided for information purposes for the Public Meeting.
Following the Public Meeting, Planning Department Staff will prepare a report which will
include review and consideration of policies that are relevant to the requested
‘amendment.

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS:

‘Acomplete application for amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 has
been received, including all applicable fees. There are no other financial considerations
at this time,

CONCLUSION

‘A Report on this matter, including a detailed analysis of the proposed amendment,
review and consideration of the issues raised at the public meeting and a
recommendation from Planning Staff, will be prepared for consideration of the Economic
Developr ining Committee at a future meeting.

M. Pascoe Merkley, MCIP, RPP J. Faurschou, MCIP, RPP
Director of Planning Planner |

a

Casselman
City Manager


‘SCHEDULE A” Report 2015-130-12 jj

OS eh


