ral Public Meeting
BROCKVILLE Economic Development &
Grvor ie [eo BcaNDE Plan

Tuesday, February 06, 2018,
COMMITTEE MINUTES City Hall, Council Chambers:

Committee Members:
Councillor M. Kalivas, Chair

Councillor J. Baker

Councillor L. Bursey

Councillor D. LeSueur

Councillor Mayor D. Henderson, Ex-Officio

Stat
S. MacDonald, City Clerk

A. McGinnis, Planner II

D. Dick, Director of Corporate Services

‘The Chair called the meeting to order at 6:00 pm.
REPORT

1. 2018-012-02
Proposed Zoning By-Law Amendment to
Zoning By-Law 050-2014,
137 George Street and Trinity Church Lands, Brockville

Moved by: Councillor Baker

THAT Report 2018-012-02 be received as information and that a report on
this matter be prepared by Staff for consideration of the Economic
Development Planning Committee at a future meeting.

CARRIED

Councillor Kalivas announced the Public Meeting procedure.

‘A McGinnis announced that Notice of the Public Meeting was advertised in
the Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper and the Brockville This Week
on January 11, 2018 and was circulated to property Owners within 120.0
metres (400.0 feet) of the subject property and various Agencies and
Departments. In addition, signs were posted on the subject property
advising that the lands are the subject of an Application for Amendment to
City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014.

Page 1 of 4

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, February 06, 2018

Page 2 of 4

Councillor Kalivas, Chair, asked that any person wanting further notice of
the passage of the proposed amendment should give their full name,
address, e-mail and postal code to the Secretary prior to leaving the
meeting. Councillor Kalivas identified that "Request for Information
Sheets” were located at the back of the room.

Councillor Kalivas reviewed the procedures for the Public Meeting.

‘A. McGinnis provided an overview of the proposed amendments to the
official plan and zoning by-law.

Tracy Zander, Zander Plan Inc. spoke to the application representing the
developers. She confirmed that the proposed plan does include sufficient
parking, with a single entrance to the site. The developers are requesting
relief from the playground requirement as the Rotary Park is in very close
proximity to the development.

Councillor Baker asked that the report indicate whether there has been any
relief granted to other developments for playground contributions during
this term of council.

Councillor Bursey asked if any of the units will be accessible. Stefano
Ferrante replied that the development will include four (4) accessible units
in each building; AODA compliant washrooms.

John McDougall, 166 Church Street - J. McDougall spoke in opposition to
the proposal. He noted that previous development of the Leon site required
blasting which caused damage to his home. S. Ferrante indicated that
there would not be any blasting on the site. A. McGinnis confirmed that a
blasting permit would be required which includes the requirement of pre
and post blasting studies. T. Zander indicated that there is no intention to
blast.

Paul Bullock, 151 king St E - P. Bullock spoke in opposition to the
proposal. He noted his disappointment with the construction that includes
small windows and no balconies. Mr. Ferrante responded that the size of
windows Is maximum permitted under the building code.

Gwen Priestly, 130 Church Street - G. Priestly spoke in opposition to the
proposal. She noted the existing problems with parking on the street
making it difficult for residents to get in and out of their driveways on

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, February 06, 2018

Page 3 of 4

Church Street. She noted that when the roof was installed at Rotary Park
that the construction caused her house to shake. What are implications
during this construction? She asked how long It would take to demolish the
site and build new. The Developer estimated demolition to take 2-3,
months and construction, one building at a time approximately 14 months;
it was planned to start with the building on the east side and use the lands
on the west side for construction lay down area and worker parking.

Dave Sheridan, Maitland spoke in opposition to the proposal. He expressed
his disappointment with the demolition of the church. If components of the
church were donated to the City, it could be repurposed/reconstructed at
other City properties.

Doug Grant, 8 Orchard Street spoke in opposition to the project.

D. Van Vliet 172 Church Street spoke in opposition to the proposal
Concerns noted with traffic and the safety of neighbourhood children. He
questioned need for apartments in the downtown core.

Adele Bradley, 40 Winters Court thought that Trinity Church would be a
good location for St Vincent de Paul Centre drop in centre.

Councillor LeSueur asked about demolition and the cost and/or feasibility
of saving portions of the church, Chris Carson spoke to the stone within
the church. It is expensive to take the stone down piece by piece It is,
difficult to put a monetary value of the stone. The current owners tried for
many years to find someone with interest in taking the stone. The
developers would be interested if feasible to re-purpose materials.

T. Zander addressed traffic concerns the proposal does meet the
requirements of the zoning bylaw. There is a market for apartment units
within the City.

Joe Botham happy to see developer in downtown Brockville. Pleased to see
property developed instead of sitting idle and unused. He added it was
encouraging to have more residential units’ downtown which will make the
downtown come alive again.

The meeting adjourned at 7:16 pm.

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, February 06, 2018

Page 4 of 4

2018-011-02
Proposed General Amendment to
Zoning By-Law 050-2014

Moved by: Councillor Bursey

THAT Report 2018-01-02 be received as information and that a report,
Including final by-law on this matter be prepared by Staff for consideration
of the Economic Development Planning Committee at a future meeting.

CARRIED

Councillor Kalivas announced the meeting at 7:19 pm.
A. McGinnis announced that Notice of the Public Meeting was advertised in
the Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper and the Brockville This Week
on January 11, 2018 and various Agencies and Departments. In addition,
signs were posted on the subject property advising that the lands are the
subject of an Application for Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-
law 050-2014.

Councillor Kalivas, Chair, asked that any person wanting further notice of
the passage of the proposed amendments should give their full name,
address, e-mail and postal code to the Secretary prior to leaving the
meeting. Councillor Kalivas identified that "Request for Information
Sheets” were located at the back of the room.

Councillor Kalivas reviewed the procedures for the Public Meeting.

‘A. McGinnis provided an overview of the proposed amendments to the
zoning by-law.

The committee requested that staff provide a recommendation on parking
requirements.

No person spoke to the proposal
‘No person completed the Request for Information form.

The meeting adjourned at 7:31 pm.

