QO Economic Development &

BROCKVILLE Planning Committee
Tuesday, October 03, 2017, 5:15 pm
COMMITTEE MINUTES City Hall, Council Chambers:

Members Present:
Councillor D. LeSueur, Chair
Councillor J. Earle

Councillor M. Kalivas

Mayor D. Henderson, Ex-Officio

Other Council Members:
Councillor P. Deery

Absent:
Councillor J. Baker

Staff:
D. Dick, Director of Corporate Services

J. Faurschou, Planner I

L. Murray, Deputy City Clerk (Recording Secretary)
R. Nolan, Director of Economic Development

‘The Chair called the meeting to order at 5:15 pm.
DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST

Nil.

DELEGATIONS AND PRESENTATIONS.

Nil.

CORRESPONDENCE

Nil.

Page 1 of 7

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Committee Minutes -
Tuesday, October 03, 2017

REPORTS FROM BOARDS AND COMMITTEES

1.

Heritage Brockville
P. Bullock

P. Bullock circulated a "Brief" which has been attached to the minutes. P.
Bullock offered some history of the Committee and also listed some of
their current projects.

Brockvill
N. Bowman

Public Library

NN. Bowman announced herself and noted that October is Library Month.
She then introduced Emily Farrell who is the Brockville Public Library's new
CEO.

Emily reviewed the summer and fall initiatives and community outreach
programs. She described their upcoming launch of Oculus Rift Virtual
Reality happening later this month. Emily had a cardboard "Google" virtual
reality viewer and circulated throughout the Committee so they may have
an idea of what to expect.

‘STAFF REPORTS

Page 2 of 7

2017-101-10
Proposed Amendment to Sign By-law 84-89,
770 Stewart Blvd.,

Applicant: Pattison Signs-Dominic Rotundo,
Owner: 345511 Ontario Ltd.

Moved by: Councillor Earle

THAT the application to amend Sign By-law 84-89 to allow 345511 Ontario
Ltd. to install an oversized pylon sign, with a total sign area of 40.18 m2
with a maximum area of 27.75 m2 of the sign be permitted for advertising,
at 770 Stewart Boulevard, Brockville, be approved.

CARRIED

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Committee Minutes -
Tuesday, October 03, 2017

2. 2017-102-10
Brockville Arts Centre
musi-theatre lease

Moved by: Mayor Henderson
THAT Council authorize a five year agreement commencing January 1, 2017
between the City of Brockville and the Brockville Theatre Guild and the
Brockville Operatic Society with respect to the use of the musi-theatre
portion of the Brockville Arts Centre; and
THAT rental payments commence January 1, 2017 shall be $5,643.96 per
annum per group.

CARRIED

NEW BUSINESS - REPORTS FROM MEMBERS OF COUNCIL

Nil.

CONSENT AGENDA

Moved by: Councillor Kalivas

THAT the following items be listed on Consent Agend:

1. 2017-101-10
Proposed Amendment to Sign By-law 84-89, 770 Stewart Blvd

2. 2017-102-10
Brockville Arts Centre, Musi-Theatre Lease

ADJOURNMENT
Moved by: Mayor Henderson

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee adjourned its
meeting until the next regular meeting scheduled for November 7, 2017.

CARRIED

The meeting adjourned at 5:37 pm.

Page 3 of 7

HERITAGE BROCKVILLE

Brockille's Municipal Heritage Advisory Committee
‘race ty Hal P.O. Box 500, 1 King St. West, Brockville, ON, Canada KEV 7AS

Oct. 3, 2017

Brief To EDP Committee:

Heritage Brockville was formed in 1976 as an advisory committee to City Council on
Heritage matters. Our mandate is covered by the Ontario Heritage Act. We have a very
close association with the Planning Department of which we appreciate. Our meetings
take place on the first Tuesday of each month, September to June at 7:00 pm., here at
City Hall. Councillors are always welcome and our meetings are open to the public.
Some of our activities in the past year are:

‘= The presentation of the Architectural Rehabilitation Award (show example)
during Heritage Week

= We supply design ideas to aid owners in the renovation of their buildings. A
concept drawing for Richard's Coffee House is shown below.

Pages or

Page sor?

,, with three others pending,

We've answer inquiries from Realtors, Insurance Agencies & Home Owners
regarding the status of a building. We also have answered questions regarding
Heritage Easements on privately owned buildings.

We hosted a Heritage Conservation Workshop in the Aquatarium.

We participated in the production of an Historical Research Guide lead by the
Brockville Museum.

We have worked with Virginia Adams to create an on-line Heritage Plaque Tour
featured on the city’s website,

Maintained our own website.

Consulted with a multitude of business owners about their application to the
Facade Improvement Program.

Successfully applied to the Brockville Legacy Fund to replace three of the black &
white free-standing plaques with new coloured ones.

We generated these canvas displays that were used in the Rails To Trails
Celebration in August and are ready for Heritage Week.

‘We maintain the City’s Register of Culturally Important buildings.

Upon occasion, we supply council witha list of street names which reflect our
city's past.

We have just initiated a Street Plate Program, as shown
below, which explains the history behind the street
name. Eight of these small plates have been attached
to street poles along King Street, with three additional
ones still pending. These $30.00 plates have all
received sponsorship from members of the public, The
one on Chase Street was paid for by a person from
Nova Scotia, a Mr. Chase geet,

Decent TOP Cone 2527


Jon Faurschou

Subject FW: Brockville Hyundal

From: John Hinton
‘Sent: Tuesday, October 03, 2017 3:39 PM.
‘To: dane felows

(Ce: Jon Faurschou

Subject: Re: Brockville Hyundai

Hi Jobnathon

was speaking with Dane and as we may not be able able to make this aftemoons meeting I am writing as you
suggested

In speaking with Andrew he mentioned that the height ofthe proposed sign was

not the issue but the issue is sq footage and that our poe is solid (as compared to Nissans being two upright
columns with the Center open )

‘This design gives the pole more sq footage but in one colour metal cladding-. Nothing that is distracting or
Gandy but a nicely coordinated sign

‘We are hopeful we can get this approval as it will be a better fit tothe match up withthe building scale and look

‘Thank you
John Hinton

Sent from my iPhone

On Oct 3, 2017, at 3:16 PM, dane fellows <dane.fellows@icloud.com> wrote:

Page 6 of 7 1

MEMO

DATE: September 28,2017
MEMO TO: Andrew McGinnis, Planner I
FROM: Greg Healy, Chief Fire Prevention Officer

RE: ‘Sign By-Law Amendment Application, Brockville Hyundai (File 84-89-54)

After reviewing application for the above noted projet, please be advised this Department has no
fire safety concems at this time,

+
ReaveD
SEP 29 2017
“LANNING

Copy to: M. Tyo, Fire Prevention Officer

Page 7 of 7


