Page

Page 1 of 36

a Economic Development and

BROCOMILE Planning Committee

BROCKVILLE Tuesday, November 4, 2014, 4:15 pm
City Hall, Council Chambers

Commies Members ‘reas of Responsibly

Councilor M. MeFal, Chair Economic Development Economic Dovolopmont

Councilor D: Beatty Planning Acvisory Team

Councilor M. Kaivas «Chamber of Commerce ‘Museum Board

Councilor D. LaSueur BIA Lary Board

Mayor D. Henderson, Heritage Brocile Ants Centre

ExOttcio Tourism

COMMITTEE AGENDA

Disclosure of Interest
Delegations and Presentations

1. 80 Years of our Flag Committee
(Robert J. Harper)

Mr. Harper will address the Committee regarding the 4 day festival planned
for February 2015 to celebrate the 50th Anniversary of the Canadian Flag.

Correspondence

1. Determent of Impost / Development Charges - Millwood Condominiums
(Sweetwater Homes Ld.)

2. 2015 Flag Festival
50 Years of Our Flag Committee

THAT the correspondence dated October 24, 2014 from the 50 Years of Our
Flag Committee be received.

Staff Reports
1. 2014-18-11
“Brochuille - Birthplace of the Canadian Flag"
Corporate Branding

THAT Council consider the undertaking of a branding strategy for the
Corporation of the City of Brockville during budget deliberations.

Pago 2 0f 36

Economic Development and Planning Committee
November 4, 2014

New Business - Reports from Members of Council
Nil

Brainstorming
Adjournment

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee adjourned its meeting
nti the next regular meeting scheduled for December 2, 2014.

Page 3 of 36

SweetWater
HOMES LTD

(October 29,2014
VIA EMAIL ONLY @ MPascoeMerkiey@brockvillecom

‘Ms. M. Maureen Pascoe-Merkley, MCIP, RPP
Disectorof Planning

Cig of Brockville

1 King Steet Wes, P.. Box 5000
Brockville, ON KEV TAS

Dear Ms. Pascoe- Merkley:

RE: _ SWEETWATER HOMES LTD. - DEFERMENT OF IMPOST/DEVELOPMENT CHARGES
MILLWOOD CONDOMINIUMS,

Further tthe application for a Building Permit forthe above-noted developmeat, we wish to confim that we would
‘appreciate consideration to defer the development and impos charges in accordance with paragraph 2.15 of the City's
Bylaw 062-2014 (Despite sections 2.14, Council from time to time, and at any time, may enter into agreements
providing fr al or any part ofa development charge to be pid before or afer it wou otherwise be payable, in
‘accordance with seston 27 ofthe Act)

Its our intention to pass on some oll ofthese fees to the end owner. Please let the undersigned know what the
process is in oder to obiain consideration ofthe deferment of the fees. I understand from an email fom Andrew
McGinnis of August 10, 2014, that it must be addressed atthe council level nd wast advise me ofthe steps

Please do not hesitate to contact the undersigned with any questions.

Kind regards,
Sweetwatar Homes Le

Executive Asistant


Page 4 0f 36

Canada Celebrates
50 Years of Our Flag

“Brockville, Birthplace of the Canadian Flag”

October 24, 2014
To: City of Brockville

50 years of our Flag committee have been working diligently for the past 3 years
to bring awareness to the world of the upcoming 50™ Anniversary of our Canadian
Maple Leaf Flag on February 15"" 2015, and the details of how Brockville Ontario
has become recognized as the “Birthplace of the Canadian Flag”.

Our committee has received a wide outpouring of support from all levels of
Government, Municipal, Provincial & Federal as well as corporations and regular
everyday citizens here in Brockville and across Canada.

‘Our committee have succeeded in several very large undertaking in the past 3
years and we are now preparing to work with the City of Brockville, Brockville and
Area Tourism, Brockville and Area Chamber of Commerce and many other
organizations to execute a 4 day Flag Festival here in Brockville from Friday
February 13” through to the afternoon of Monday February 16th. This incredible
long week-end break from the long winter will be an economical and
psychological boost no seen in Brockville since the days of Okpik.

Some of the planned events include a Red & White Hockey game, a Red & White
1965 style Valentines dinner/dance, a Canadian Maple leaf Village complete with
fireworks for the Sunday Flag Day Celebration and wrapping up on Monday
February 16" Family Day events.

Page 5 of 36

All of these events have certain costs associated with each of them. Our
committee has requested some funding from Canadian Heritage and Official
Languages through our MP Gord Brown. We are in the process of setting up a
raffle for a utility trailer decorated in Red & White and Maple Leaf Flag.

ur special projects coordinator is researching any possible Provincial grant
programs for funding.

Our estimate to execute this 4 day festival is approximately $58,000.00. Many of
the events have the possibilty of raising funds to offset the cost, but there are
other events planned which will not produce revenue at all. Therefore we are
asking the City of Brockville through the EDP to underwrite the costs up to
$38,000.

Our committee are prepared to answer any detailed questions relating to this
proposal. | have attached a costing break out for your review.

Sincerely submitted by,
Robert J. Harper
50 Years of Flag

Committee Chair

Pago 6 of 36

Canada Celebrates
“50 Years of Our Flag”

Project Overview

‘The idea was formed in August 2011 when Bob and Sue Harper met with John and Edith
‘Matheson to begin the process of researching the birthplace of the Canadian Flag.

After 15 months, in November of 2012, Bob Harper commissioned the Commemorative Painting
ith Phil Chadwick and formed the SO years of Our Flag Committee.

In January 2013, te Cit of Brockville was approached to have the Committee endorsed asa
Committee of intent.

In February 2013, the organizations strategy was developed for commemorating the efforts
‘made by John Ross Matheson and to recognize Brockville asthe Birthplace of the Canadian Flag.

‘The goals ofthe committee were established as:

1

Renaming ofa Brockvil Street in honor of John Ross Matheson, “Father of our Fag”. This was
sucessfully achieved in May of 2013, with the renaming ofthe street directiy in front of the
Court House to John Ross Matheson Way.

Have Brockuilleoicialy recognized asthe Birthplace of the Canadian Flag, by al levels of
government.

To have a 180’ flag pole and commemorative plaque bult and placed in the City. This was
achieved on July 1, 2013, withthe generous support of Mitch Goidhar of SmartCentres to install
12 120’ flagpole with 20’ by 40’ lag, to be enlarged to 160’ pole and 35° by 70" flag on July 1,
2014,

City of Brocklle romating Brockville a the birthplace ofthe Canadian flag. This was
successfully achieved with the placing of City entrance signs in July 2013 and also through
Brockvle Downtown Business Improvement Association sponsoring the purchase and
Installation of over 120 fag banners to be placed along the City Street.

Initiate Fly More Flags program with goal of increasing knowledge and awareness in schoo!
systems. This was achieved through sponsorship by Brockille Home Hardware Building Center
ands being launched in fal of 2014. Finalizing sponsorship with local business owners to
support the effort to bring a day Fag Festival to Brockville,

To develop mural displays depicting John Ross Matheson as the Father of the Flag and Brockville
as the birthplace of Canada's Fag, This was achieved in une 2014 by art students from
‘Thousand stands Secondary School completing a collection of individual paintings to be
splayed at the 1000 islands Mall.

Pago 7 of 36

7. Hold event on February 15, 2014 to commemorate Flag Day. Successfully achieved through
"unveling of Commemorative Painting and launch of Bob Harpers’ book, “The Brockville
CConnection- Canada's Flag”, atthe Brocklle Rowing Cub.

8. To promote February 15" as National Flag Day of Canada and have the Federal Government
designate sata statutory holiday tobe held each year on February 15%,

9. 2015 to 2017 Promotional and Educational Tour. Engagement of educational institutions and
social organizations by traveling throughout Canada promoting the Sith ofthe Canadian Fag,
and leading up to Canads's 150” birthday.

‘Associated Costs:

‘August 2011 to June 2014

Expenditures that have been incurred to date

1. 3,300 hours of research and travel costs $ 92,000

Flag Plaque on Monument $ 6000
3, 160" Flag Pole and maintenance into perpetuity ‘$490,000,

‘Contributed by Mitch Goldhar

4. Commemorative Painting, $ 60,000
5. Book Writing and Publishing $ 35,800
6. Fly More Flags $1,500
7. FlagDay 2014 $ 1,300
8. Street Naming $ 4200
9. Mural Projet Supplies $1500
10. Downtown Brockville Banner Flags $ 4,700
1. 100 Fags in Brockville — Parkedale Avenue $5.90

Total $699,800

Page 8 of 36

‘50° Anniversary Celebration and Budet;

vent Tile: Canada Celebrates 50 Years of our Flag the Brockville Connection
Date: February 13" to 16", 2015

Location: Gy of Brockville

Programs:

Hockey Game ~ Friday February 13%, 2035
‘© Redvs White
‘© Allparticipants to be SO Years and Older to match the age of the Flag
‘+ Flags handed out to all participants and spectators
‘+ Estimated Cost - $2,500
‘Valentine's Day ~ Saturday, February 14%, 2015
‘+ Red and White Dance and Celebration themed on culture and dress of 1965
‘+ Estimated Cost -$8,500

Flag Retail Promotion ~ Saturday, February 14%, 2014
‘* Red and White Valentine's Day and Canadian Flag Promotion
‘= Every couple eating at local restaurants will receive redemption coupon to receive a Canadian
Fag.
41,000 flags to be distributed
Estimated Cost $15,000

50 Years of Our Flag Celebration- Sunday, February 15", 2015
‘© Canadian Maple Leaf Vilage set up around Canadian Flag Monument at SmartCentres
‘¢ Featuring all things Canadian
‘+ Stage set for entertainers and dignitaries
Fireworks tobe launched at night fall- approximately 5:30 pm
Estimated Cost -$22,500

‘Advertising and Collateral
‘+ Developed by Tourism Office
‘+ Estimated Costin kind and hard costs $9,500,

‘Total Estimated Cost- $58,000.00
Gifts and Grants and sponsors $20,000.00
City of Brockuille contribution $38,000.00

Page 9 of 36

October 25, 2014

REPORT TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING COMMITTEE,
November 4, 2014

2014-118-11

“Brockville — Birthplace of the Canadian Flag” ‘Sandra MacDonald
Corporate Branding City Clerk
RECOMMENDED

THAT Council consider the undertaking of a branding strategy for the Corporation of the
City of Brockville during budget deliberations

PURPOSE

This report provides the comments and input from various corporate departments,
boards and committees regarding the rebranding of the Corporation. It also provides a
recommendation to undertake the development of a branding strategy.

BACKGROUND

‘At the Council meeting of September 9, 2014, Councilor Earle made the following
recommendation:

Brockville ~ Birthplace of the Canadian Flag
Moved by: Councillor Earle

THAT the City’s current branding be replaced by "Brockville — Birthplace of the
Canadian Flog’.

Council referred the matter to Committee in order to receive comments and input from
various departments, boards and committees.

ANALYSIS/OPTIONS

Comments and input were received from the Tourism Advisory Committee, Heritage
Brockville, Brockville Museum and Brockville Arts Centre on the rebranding of The
Corporation of the City of Brockville to “Brockville ~ Birthplace of the Canadian Flag"
(Attachment 1). The following is a summary of the feedback received:

‘= Important to distinguish between community messaging, tag lines and a formal
branding exercise including the imagery and commentary that is associated with
the community brand,

+ We still can establish a new brand and have varied messaging associated with
different sectors that are promoting to distinct audiences.

Page 100136
Report 2014-18-11

“Brockville - Birthplace of the Canadian Flag”

Corporate Branding Page 2

‘+ A proper branding exercise should engage an external source for facilitating
sessions with various community interest groups including Council
‘+ The final creative part of the exercise should include graphic design.

‘There are a variety of messaging and tag lines currently in use, including:

Brockville ~ City of the 1000 Islands
Brockville ~ Your Home in the 1000 Islands
Home Town Charm.... World Class Business!
‘Simply the BEST!

Accessibilty: Our goal is reality

We have not undertaken a formal branding exercise in over 20 years. With the
implementation of Strategic Plan, Community Plans, Official Plan and Zoning By-law
and the growing use of various social media tools it may be time. Many of these plans
have identified what our community offers and where we are heading, both elements of
a branding exercise.

‘There are not guidelines currently in place for the use of Corporate logos. There are
various logos and crest in use currently, which include:

[a a

[ay
ROCKVILLE BROCKVILLE
Pe 86 ROC air

efi

BROCKVILLE
—_ i 1: =
en

our crty, oar plan

Ging the BETO

{mn addition to the various “Corporate” logos and crests, various Boards and Committees
of Council and projects have their own logos; Brockville Arts Centre, Museum, Railway
Tunnel Committee, Heritage Brockville; Downtown Brockville. Additionally, our office
has received request from new Committees of Council would also like to have a logo for
their use.


Page 11 of 38
Report 2014-118-11

“Brockville — Birthplace of the Canadian Flag”

Corporate Branding Page 3

BRocKviG

Brockville - 1000 Islands

DOWNTOWN ELECTION
BROCK, 2014

Attached are reference documents related to branding:

‘+ Attachment 2 - Understanding the Purpose of a Corporate Branding Strategy by
Martin Roll (April 2004)

‘Attachment 3 ~ Federation of Canadian Municipalities Case Study: Pla
Branding for Municipalities

‘+ Attachment 4 — Chatham-Kent, Corporate Use of Municipal & Community
Branding Guidelines excerpt

‘Attachment § ~ Leeds Grenville Branding Guide excerpt

the development of a branding strategy “Brockville ~ Birthplace of the Canadian
Flag’ could be considered as a tagline with guidelines developed for its use.

POLICY IMPLICATIONS

The development of a branding strategy will result in guidelines for consistent use the
‘municipal brand for communications which demonstrates our corporate professionalism
and recognizabilty from residents, communities, stakeholders.

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS


Page 12.0135,
Report 2014-118-11

“Brockville ~ Birthplace of the Canadian Flag”

Corporate Branding Page 4

CONCLUSION

Staff are not supportive of the addition/use of “Brockville ~ Birthplace of the Canadian
Flag’ as the Corporate brand. It may be more suitable as a tag line.

Abbranding exercise that considers the use of “Brockville ~ Birthplace of the Canadian

Flag”, includes the development of branding guidelines and the graphic design of the
brandmark should be undertaken,

5 all Seated D. \e

City Clerk Director of Economic Development
D. Dick, CA, B. Casselman

Director of Corporate Services City Manager

Attachfi@nt?r! sé

‘September 12, 2014
‘To the attention of: Mayor and Council
Regarding Motion Moved by: Councilor Earle

THAT the City's current branding be replaced by "Brockville — Birthplace of the
Cnadian Flag".

Response from Brockville Tourism Advisory Committee

thas been brought to the attention of the Brockville Tourism Advisory Committee that
the 50 years our Flag committee would lke to rebrand the City of Brockville/ Brockville
‘Tourism to include “Birthplace of the Canada Flag”on all digital or print communication
‘materials into the future.

‘The Brockville Tourism Advisory Committee advises the City to source outside
‘consultation before any rebranding exercise is performed 80 we can encompass all the
natural attributes Brockville has to offer Le. The St. Lawrence River and the Thousand
Islands as well new developments with the Aquatarium and Canada's First Rallway
Tunnel.

‘The Brockville Tourism Advisory Committee would support a rebranding Inative for the
Cy of Brockville. The rebranding exercise would not only consider the birthplace of the
Canadian Fiag but also would take into account other groups with other claims.
anade's First Ralway Tunnel, City f 1000 Isands, end a ity ina UNESCO
Biosphere Reserve. There are many clalms and are many variables a City and its
Partners need to consult before any decisions are made. After consideration we cennot
support the current mation as its writen.

Tourism Manager

Page 14.0138,

HERITAGE BROCKVILLE

‘Brockville’s Municipal Heritage Advisory Committee
Brockville Cty Hall P.O. Box S000, 1 King St. West, Brockville, ON, Canada K6V 7AS

October 9, 2014

Ms.C. Goldberg,
City of Brockville,
Victoria Hall,

1 King St. West,
Brockville, ON
KV 75

Dear Ms. Goldberg:

‘Heritage Brockville reviewed the proposed new City branding phrase at our regular meeting on
‘Tuesday October 7, 2014, We would like to make the following comments;

+ the present branding phrase provide an active and descriptive way to atvat people
this ci.

+ our research indicates that thee is some debate regarding the eccuracy ofthe claim tht
the aca ag design originated in Brockville.

ifa rebranding a needed we woul ike to see more citizens of Brockville involved ia
the process

‘We suggest thatthe present logo “Brockville ~ City of the 1000 Islands” serves this city well.
‘As committee we appreciate being consulted on this matter.

Sincerely yours,

Paul Bullock,
151 King St. East,
Brockville, ON
K6V ICI

ce: Committee Members
Kaylyn MacDonald

soot

Corpse racing | rat Marup | Capare ere |traechrel oe AttZenriBAnse

Best Global Brands 2014

brandchannel

‘Seay racy Sm

yourchance!

Interbrand —_brandchannel

Understanding the Purpose of a Aegitrfer our sewer
Corporate Branding Strategy

eed Titigeenoncnetcen
Cone aeotoaen werner ness
‘tact and womnne Tanah ie terion tceay Cys yegete

mansion
‘sng sraspar an pois an opeasson eng na cn aan bu omg

‘Sora aw conser copete brary say ois 8 None oe wn nd Corurl cai Canen
‘Srmine onheC20 ora senarmaagemet@eaome ay eacane meena fasbohnytaniwsns
cctv
ene nn iy, et men eS crt nn

hve sv ceed etry hese mgs sas orale NY Agvaranmants

‘Scpeme tog saan eveyone sani mas ote Stn rt Cot gs ®
‘Sun etang at we mare aaah pat vas gery man cate
Serer om

tune cima anger von ct uni pts ne mare ace

‘Sipe andnevangon mary ebay heer nap open

‘Thre Pmans of nicotene, Conan ea Monel el Sp Als

‘Sues tom Pe acanee bees ote mn cere bare
sacar in pve “ya he i to in one one

sNews comtrand speap% Jot

esc Corpor Branigan Maragsret| Corpse re | tance om
‘Tres evr eats remo aig aay aca can x ata a_ New nen ho
stor convat bes roles wna tn wl bres sg. ria tl
‘eornon sme ang wet wet wow ore marta pcs Te cope
\tecrors eri lhe coposter ecnies we ects fev a. pera
recoung simon arg ery er Serer Tw of NSB eh cee
‘amare’ spel comes tang roy FBC eos ha sre commen eenton
‘tute oe wh snl avenge abd one ng Tew ete "TH
{hse ano oa be roan Dg ben Many a ere, ry
‘nay oe te se oy.

Page 16.0196

‘cenit tig rn sy ween ba ba perk 8 eats
‘Geeta ne contaten PRG ts flr an kown sr mg. =
{freon band AG tl ot encase cee by a cmeanyapeg on he
Disaster ost mteban  cresrnd areca Pa cee of PG
“epurin on be mrapeert sou t ne cre veh ate Or ve plo a8
ten ested oe mploraes «seven 9 pel ca ere wri my ere eh
{tecapormor’ othe say spec an en vr toners Ths
Meaty tate na bond wc ft copra Pe say Tho eed
tected tan np eo cae he ete cee

wn te caoron ccs 6 motors caeata wang stig. ames emcscan
hens anes ooo sre sae ei meee ote ro Say
tia rye Toy agrees hh rt eres
(raran essen patie conten te soge nr nas feta netrocy te
Pramacnac a sy Spat AD or ew pots seven, Pel le
(eng ate on sot ray auras oe an pein ave eet us
‘eset viper an mating cvs wn wai jel. Tsao cont a
{eng eopantow ava hr cot cue and capo bang tay cao
Ivar aves oo yong ees pil ees on reer ea
eestor

‘re evn con fences nt fc manag veg sano he
apt rd epces ao Maal poate ar rah a cave cepts
[eet bang eng cn trea aaenat oman cate up syrazes

‘Tre Aopen esses vey seg omton of nga ene are ewe cmeany
eng may tos opt ces femora wan espn he ba oa soda a
Conroy the man messge ue sere Rese ane vara nbs esrb S|
(Grote sot ae ree

‘one sho coy on pati ol eotg te ban pert a babe oo
corps sername! ese mae see
Uesthacrs nage of pe coprton The ase quosne sale eer conten de
‘rosin owas pt etn canbe tare! yay era of ren. ri
{og fray, tm ert ft certo can be evans sg or ban ha ato
{ebemal rane chs wan or srg cpnte Danang esate cy 2s

Ines cami tyes. cone arcs ave eae Stag es face ao
‘omaaters Capo tun by erases have btare vais meen one amy eaeree
‘es nna ve vey es much yrs ae

‘endef ony, to Mar ces vans eve at corny ree le
senertnsoe anspor quran eau he ual" A srg od we
‘trend cmon oun ten teaghet ne canenten nS pesanle CEO eh no cn

‘Ta Pat of mo tein on opening Pat It To Slap Scot Copan
Beng tb a a A 2

Marin Rl 9 CEO o Venom Re en eps avian ntradrg cers capone
tears ow epmaragener cons es anegeencdeenatanssring tse ered
‘earns when a andar aaron an bg

yourchance Qinr=ireds) — Dioanan ae
Seometine ———Ormamand( 19) ana

tenn rant camtrand spa ete 81

CASE STUDY:
PLACE BRANDING FOR MUNICIPALITIES

The Case of Regina,
Canada R

REGINA

ek


Page 18.0135,

E> >>> 2

Place-Branding General Context
Inthe word of consumer goods. we understand that
‘brands the sum ofall expences related to the
roduc and service Meaning. brand perceptions are
Ehaped by functional experiences tke quay relabity
‘te. a8 well as emotonal experiences asacited with
the prowvet. Ths ro less trve m place branding the
place brond ests the mend of he zen

Every otizen 9 acy regen and natonhas a perention
ofthat place, Through thar actions 8nd beets thay
roves the rand. Complex brand perceptions about
place are created overtime and through functionality
land experience For cites tat mears lokong 2 he
abit Ge netonaliy) and quality of Ife. ctizen
fepenence) of our ettes and understanding how that
Sheoos our ctizene perceotion nd what they baeve
tobe tue about place,

Pace: branding elaively ew for both economic
\Sevelopers and cormuncationsprotessorals ase,
and 1 fst becomng an important too or oc
economic development. Thoretcallyplace-brending
has evoled a an iterdscipinary field of study beng
ing together nternatoncl relations org pokey. whan
lsanno. sonal psychalogy and busness marketng,
Put nto oracten ploce-branding has recently ganed
prominence as gisbalzaon hed led to increasing cor
Pettion amongst tes naetractng tours abitonts
Sha investment thai region Nations. regons and
{ties ae lookng for ways to fferetate themschves
theaugh branaing, The puose of Place-branding is
‘enealy understood as

+ To increase atractweness of companies and
ccvensnents

+ Topromote tours
+ To promote ube diplomacy

To suppor interest of mport and export industry

To strengthen ctizens identity and increases
seitestoom

tions, regons and cites around the word are defi
Ing thor place-brond ans cresting marotig strategies
oacheve these goals. Regina s one Canadian Cty
‘who hes boly apo place-brancing and market ng
Techmiques to anhance te lea econome Gevelopment

Regina in Context

‘citys branes inevtably inked tot tory.
Foundea nthe mise of on and are featureless
‘rasslan” in 882, Regina evolved as Saskatchewan's

‘arvana tena and Manage tan Moin

capital city Regis has served asthe cutural and com
‘meres core for tho southern part ofthe prownce
tnth ach and colourful story. Famed Canadian
Doltican Louis Ret staged a i there 885, and the
ty eventual become know forts poleal acusre
‘nd forwara-thinkng socal programs. As the second
[etgest city the provace, Regina cutuated a stron@
‘atural resource-based economy. The city had few.
Topographical features, and unlrtunately. mc of

is bute hertage boasting Is rich hestory hod been
‘Semolahed in resevelooments ts reputation 283
featureless grassland bagan to precede promoting
Regina to redefine te brand

Branding Regina
A distnguishng feature of Regina's branding campsen
‘that was promoted by both pastonate citizens
Gnd tne community. The Mayer ang Counc responded
Te conmmunty concer by supporting an image Improve-
‘ment Project n 2008, wos Gear tat te ety nooged
‘much more than logo. and they launched an nchisve
brand development process The defined goal or the
braneng process ncluce!

Attract new etizens, business, vestment. events
‘and stay competitive with other communities

‘Abaty to deine ourzlves. rather than allow others
to define our communty for us.

Clean vp contusion and bul consistency nour

The goals articulated new brand aimed at developing
‘dynamic way to promote the eiy’s unique Wnty to
both te intrnalcomennty whom the oty sees, and
the enteral community the cy weshed to attract, The
‘ver goal was to enhance local economic devdopment
ithe correnunity with messaging that would support
‘traction of investment tant an tours,

The fest action Regina took to develop ts place-brand
nas tohire @ Brand Manager to coardnate the progran.
[Not at muncipalves hve the abt to hie 9 ceca
‘professional for ths rol however it should be noted
hat sonieant stall resources are needed to manape
the proces of place-brand identity formation. deine the
strategie pln and execute ad cocaine the tactical
‘morkebng activites in acditon tothe fu-terate,
Regina worked wth 9 communications agency to
evetop the methodology exacute key elements of

the research asst with the creative desgn ofthe
trang. and develop the subsequent marketing plan
Below san cutine and dscuion of Regie's

place brand methodology.

Place-branding typically has sx phases of development.
inthis cate study. we outine each phase. dscu55
Regina's context and suggest best practices

Page 19.01.35,

[cASESTUOV:FLACEBRANDNGFORMUNICHALITES | RS

PLACE-BRAND METHODOLOGY

1) Form Stakeholder Group

leas been nted by several place-bracing experts
that tis mperative to have staholger and community
rwolvement when devalonng 9 placebrand. Stoke
holders provide avanety of insight ard perspectives.
‘stakeholder can be defined ar someone or rome
Craaniation that har a vested terest inthe success
St your cammunty and or whowe rol to support
Community and economé growth, Typical stakeholders
induce local poltioans econeme development ofl
Chamber of Commarce, tour board local college oF
Unversity etc. Each munepalty wil have aunque Ist
Of stakolders. What matters to developing the place
brand is that broad group is engages to support the
place-branding process and tht stakeholsers a
ven ounersino ofthe process Regine formed thee
Stakeholder groups

2 Mal stakeholders: The orinarysakeholsers ictus
epresentatves fom the Yestional organzations
‘nd stations imoved in the many Tacets of focal

‘Sad communty economic development. Thi penary

“akeholders included the Regina Regional Oppor
{tunes Commission; Regina Downtown. Regina
‘Warehouse District. Regn ond Region Chamber
(of Commerce: Cry of Regina.

Business: Given that a key goal ans eventual per=
focrance cheater forthe place-brend was to
attract new investment and retain current BuEnes
the ety of Regine crested 9 second grove of
Etokenolders comorsed of owners and senor
‘executives from the ety largest employers nd
key sectors for growth

‘Youth: Attracting and retaining talent had become 3
challenge for Regina, so 8 separate stakeholder grou

‘he stakeholder groups served as a foundation to not
coniy gather reszarcn and neigh, but alto tocreste
‘momentum aed suoport nthe community. Stake
elders wil parttpae infocus grouns ane provide
feedback thats imoerativeto the pace: brand devel
‘opment proces. Often tenes the stakeholders become
‘unicilrand champions meaning they wal lay
Sh active olen shaping the finshed proguct and vil
Uomalely beasked to promote the brand and ask

2) Internal Communication Audit

[Anker Communcation aust athorowgh raison
of your current conmmurcation efforts A communica.
‘ons aut wil ase now an organzaton communcates
Ths S general the Fst stop in communications oan
fing, and tis comaried of mostly auatatve ressareh
(Of inteal commmurscation materals The muncipaltys

brand or commurscatons manager traditionally does
the Communication Aut ARernstvaly an externa
‘agency Is hed to support the place branding intitive
Results ofthe aust wil reli articulate the muncipaltys
current brand postioning,ientify gaps and set the
foundation for further research, Reaus from the
process are shared with the Stakeholder arouse In
Regina, both the Brand Manger and communestions
‘oency conducted the nternal communcations dud
The Brand Manger coordinated witn the agency to
‘gather relevant information andthe agency provides
Insight and content analysis

3) Research

witha thorough communcations aud. a pace-rendieg
tear treo to Gevelon ther research tools and Ques:
tons An analysis of the aug wil dently gaps. ana
‘oenerate questions the place-branding team ll want
tS know. These questions focus on understand the pet=
ception oftheir municipality. Typically. goneral esearch
‘Quostons are articulated to halp rent what dato cr
information wil ned tobe gated n order to dovelon
their place-bran Here are some sample research ques:
ons: Wht are my cigs saying about my mancipaity
{nd what perceptions do my target sudences have
‘bout my muntepaly? Once you have entfed the
larger esearch questions. you cen deveioo tools and
tactics to answers thom. This fr a research Both
‘Quanstative ang guaitatve nd can ivi mary
Siforrt kinds of tactics: surveys, tervews fut
‘roups and workshops A creat phase ofthe resosech
Seveleomert and section s derbying your key
Sualence In most eases. muncpaltes ae consceing
vee key ausonces nthe pace-branding process
residents stakeholders, and key external markets Regina
{sed a mx method aporoach to reach a audences
‘Their esoarh included abled of telephone suey
and focus groups in external markets snd neve,
Surveys, ond workshops wth internal audiences a8
the stakeholder groupe.

External Surveys: nore 1 understand Now
ther extemal suclence perceved ts brand, Regine
conducted 1200 telephone surveys n Saskatchewan
‘Alberta, and Ontario. These marsate where antag
as places where Regna coud eect velyatvact
investment and talent The Brand Manager workes
withthe agency to develo the survey. and the
‘saencys team conducted the interviews

External Focus Groups; n= focus group peoole are
asked about their percoptions opinions betel, anc
‘tttudes towars your mascrpalty. Following thes
Survey, Regina wanted to have a better understand:
ingof how the aty was peeved externally The
ormmuncations agency arranged focus groups n
Seszatoon Winnipea. Windsor. and Calgary. Prtcr
anes were selected at random by a local research
fem vasivonal focus group nas 10" portepents

Page 201.36,

EE >>> 4

Internal Surveys: Sia 0 externa surveys, quss-
‘onnares wore developed and creuiated song
residents of Rega Participants were aso selected
Utrangom wih research conducted bythe age7=y

Internal Focus Groups: Local esients were 0
‘ites to paticatem dacussons vou local
fecus groups. Focus group feedback proves hgh
level formation om the general option of Your
‘munepality This eal feedbacks enperatve n the
Sategy an pltioem development of place branding
because itidentiies perceptions that need tobe
changed or reinforced

© Stakeholder Surveys, Focus Groups, and Workshops:
We noted earer hat stakeholder eigagemont
‘rparaive to place-band development The Pewusls
She organizations nthe stokehoider grows hove &
‘ested terest in te municipality success, or mar
Sate to support econome ond community growth
Reging’s Brand Manger worked withthe communica
font agency to create» sutvey forthe Stakehcers
tsaation to this the Brana Manager conducted
one on one atervaws wth each Sakehader

The research phase of place-branding typally takes
28 mongha, Many vrabies wilimpact Ove eni9g
Ine your experence team resources, politcal
imate and portant response. Once a municicalty
has ented tow target market and trey ky Ques
tions they want answered hey must create the tools
to answer ther questons For wstence You ma
Understand how your target marke! perceives. you
have to develop a srvey with questions that wall Rep
‘answer those questions, then delve the survay for
‘Your target marke. inthe case of Regan, te esearch
{hase took 10 months. The wos longer thon articoates
but they had amuncipa election that impacted
thetimeine

4 Analysis and Platform Development

‘Once research gathered rm the key audiences ross
the mam tots the Srond Manager and ar cormmurca
tons agency will renaw tho coment and dentfy
Consistent themes senting consistent theres wil
het a place-brancing strategist to better deine two
things Fest, consstant postive themes wil demon
strate strength the muni-paly can bul brand on
Second cone stent nagatve theres il entity what
the muncpal rand has to combat oF what objections
{the muncipal postion statement must address.
‘Surveys. focus groups. workshoos, ana interviews will
produce a vanety of qualeaive ond quaritative data
Both are useful inthe place-branding analysis. The next
pase of analyst n place branaing pute extra eort on
footing at how much Both the nteral ane externa
mmarkatvaudlnces know about the muntepalty We
{al the determing the “brane eguty” Bond equty
‘term marketers ue to describe the valve of obrard
Gustomere knowledge of brand spat ofthis eauty

and wilinfunce the communication stratapy For
fmunecpaities, that moans understanding wet Your
[Eeal community 2nd exer competitor or target
audiences keow sbout your municipal strengths.
Services, a°6 opportuntis

(once the key themes and brand equty are dents,
‘he Brand Manger will devon the ‘rane platform
‘Tis document hahah key analysand makes rec~
commendations about the key massaging that needs tO
‘be developed forthe muntipaty, The brand satform
‘Socumant wil ia stare to arveuate vavol ond
‘reaive dection for the place brand development

Inthe case of Regn, theuh analy thy lsrned that
despite thor recent econonvé success the cty 3a not
have much equty in external morkets ond thot there
wwooriva dec corelation between the success of the
rove and Regina, More than ths they Wrsied
{wo recurtng themes: Regina's opportunties end
‘quolty of fe. AS one survey respondent put fsa
Sbeut opportunity ences opportunity, svotching out
Sroune us st Wee ous hor aon Statements lag tis
Sha other qualitsive ad quantitative detain the
Bare plato cocina onthe eet messoong
lace brand. Te analyss are platform evelopment
‘hase generally takes 2 months

“Table Toutes the main steps ofthe Analysis and
Plata fr Strategy Development. which are

«8 Revew of quaitative ancl quantitative research tO
‘dently consistent themes

1. Determine brand eauty in both internal and external
maruats to inform svatege dre=ton)

«Bran platform document veloped Brand Manager
(Gey mesiaging ang hn aware visual dene ty ara
ey astets) based on pemary and socondery research


Page 21 0136,

5) Visual and Verbal Identity and Creative
Development

Goodbye

6) Campaign Launch
once the la Gbsdbye
cubicle

GBodbye
gritllock ey sth ae

HelloRegina.cail
4 \\ 4

REGINA

Infinite Horizons

fio ng pte al propation


Page 22.0135,

E> >>> S

recrut new residents ard attract investment Working
‘sth the wsuel and verbal brand ent ty. the campaon
Included advertising on outdoor bilbosds in vanst
‘heters-goo-tagoted onine ads inclucing rel estat
fn ob search ates The massanmg ofthe ad but
Off of Regina’ nine harzons" postoning statement
Success ae both possible n Regn. An overvew
‘ofthe “Hello Regina” campaign i attached this
feport ar Appendix & The camoaign was ted 3s

bert of the etys "managed: growth strategy seoking
Tpattract people and investmant opportunites The
“Tilo Regina” campaign was considered 8 success.

a the bnathood of Calgar an's moving to Regina went
from 42% t0 73% and those who recsled seen

the carnpoign were more ikely to have a postive
meressonof Regina.

Post place-brand and Lessons Learned

Perhaps the greatest atnbize to Regina’ place-brandng
Intatve i thot s was even bythe commurnty One
Concerned een challenged cy officals and stake
halsers to develop and detver a postive message about
Regine. Cty taders and stakeholders wero wes (0
‘respond tothe eters concerns aecause they Were
ble to use thar interest to lp fue the developrent
‘Of ther place-brand with broad community engage
‘ene Regina's Brand Manager noted that community
‘engagement was the mast important part of discover-
Ing the assets ond amenities that efferentiated Regina,
‘and was ultimately a significant pat of forming the
place-brand kentity.

Community engagement takes me and mach coor
‘ination as such, Regna’s lace-branding research
took longer than anticipated. Aditional tre was.
Spent wah each stakcholder group. which proved to be
‘important piece of the place-brand success, Also
typical to muncipa projects. an electon occurred in
the midst of frag the place-brand ana launching
the camoaign The election tineine stalled the lune
ofthe brand ae senor city staf decid to Fold off on
the launch unt after the election. Wha the nti tear
‘xgancang the place-braeing exercise and campaign
fed hoged to commiate the projet m@-9 monte
took closer to 12 Important factors fr success wore

+ Broad stakeholder engagement: vg wth eo
fesentatves for fmportart uta, poltical ane
fsttutgnal organ zations and making sure that
tote representat ves bebeve in the project.

+ Community engagement: rain the ciizens to
parteppate nthe process and provide Teecback

+ Politieal wit: 2 "ayo and Counc that understands the
role # place-brand can pay mattracting investment,
{lent and tourer.

+ Welkdesigned methodology: orig with 9 Leo
oF prolessonals wns cous develop and manage the
brocess while prowaing insight,

Overall. the Regina pace-brand exercises consdered
2 nuceost-As wth any project of ths seop0, challenges
fre bound to arse, When launching the place brand
‘nd eventual campaign the biggest chasange was
intemal cooraintion wth al the flevantstakaholders
Ietakes ime for each organcation to adapt the pro
‘rams ond messaging tothe new branging scheme.
Mach fotow up wos requredto ensure thatthe Key
brand messaging wae beng neluded in stokahokior
‘outreach. The Regina Place Brand Manger noted that 2
psce-brand mantenance grogram shou be ea)
to ensure proper follow up wth each stakehaie
‘acieved and thatthe ety ' proving relevant infor
Imation and visuals to suppat the stakeholders use
Ofte place: brand,

CONCLUSION

wun ncreasng lobalzed competion to attract nvest-
‘ant talent ours, nalons ond regans munxipalies
‘Ze stnving to dierentate themsetes. olerentiaton
fd strong valu propoation for ivestmant sar with
‘Stole place brand In endo to devdop # strong place
brand the ety of Regra ad to look honestly at ther
currant negative perception of lace and daveon a band
Image that reflected the wealth of opportuntyn they
‘ty By listening to etizens and engaging members
‘rom their target audience in diferent cities across the
‘county, they were abe to discover and articulate thelr
Identity and also addross the objections to thelr city
Through a clear place-tvend metnogoiony. they were
ble to tae a reputation of beng "aa Features
‘ration and tan thot nto apace of “inteoraors*
‘there oppounites span as wie 35 the plans.

Page 23.0135,

>> 7

APPENDIX A

Regina's 2010 External Marketing Campaign

Objective

GOpdbye™ ihor
gridlock. fecannes

ied j

Family Pillar

Goodbye
construction}
slowdown.


Page 24 0135,

E> >>> 3

Media

Satepicaly placed Outdoor & Transit boards song

+ Online advertising inching calgeryherakscom,
egarysurcom. working com workopokscom,
‘soe com ki ¢3 obs, Reusing)

Linked to HeloRegina.ca URL

Experience Marketing

+ Thnge street team executions drety line vo wth
‘and suppor camosign messaging and wil occur
‘vera these day peri (rst weak of Nowernbe)
th partner Cative Auioncn

+ Development ofthe stunts continuing aod
ausence ia este an professional settings and
IRchades short “passng-by"eracbons and a ema
premaum git tram Regina

Street Team Interactions

+ Goodbye Sting with Strangers ~ Wansit ders wil
have tntecactons with the street tab 9s they ext
URT & BRT stops downtown anc discuss lower
‘commute tines and more time for fy

+ Goodbye Heavy Debt ~ Outside major banks
‘downtown the sree team wil demonstste the
‘tractive diacretonay income of Regina residents

+ Goodbye Gridlock — At busy crosswalks, parkade
entrances. ond busy steets quaty of fe messages
‘Semonstrated by the street team thyough the use
of Pade

Earned & Social Meda

+ At reveal, Social Media News Releases willbe ssued
te Calgary, Regina & nat onal med

+ Embargoed ntewviews with meds partners

+ Socal mada elements wilinlude Facebook. Twitter

Fulfilment

+ The campaign call to action willbe an nvitaton to
vst the une HellsReginaca UR.

The unsave URL willpoint to the spectic section of
Intestehorizonsca and act asthe flhiment rece
forthe campos.

Interactive videos and soci media wil be tegrated
‘nwo HelaRegnace

Measurement
+ Pre & Post Campaign Survey

+ webste trafic

+ Earned & Social med trackng

Budget
Gross Meda 75000
Fees & Production 575000
Stunt Execution & Premiums $40.00
Pre & Post Research 14,000
Photography $5000
Total $209,000,
Regina is Ready

+ Community initatve supported by numerous sake
holders an is the frst majr external campaign ever
by our commuaty wah ths type of message,

+ Campaign s based on revearch conducted ring
the deveooment of the commanty and and
Intended to put our commanty onthe choce hist
for those loking for fomiy & professional success.

Page 25 01.36,

>> 9

APPENDIX B

Hello Regina — Campaign Backgrounder

Regina is actively seeking to recruit new residents —
Inti profesionss to succeed na vibrent economy.
ad fami to thrive n a welcoming community.
{Calgary isthe ist market

WHAT: Hello Regina isan innovative resident
recruitment campaign targeting new

WHO: Campton authored by Reoin stkaholers
WHERE: calgary Alberta
WHEN: October-November 2010

WHEY. tes time to begin teling the world, starting

launched a campaign to get ready for this
step. More at htp://wmwintiitenorizonsca/

He ina. |
lelloRegina.ca prOiia

Infinite Horizons

Goodby i
eavy i AaTsp0

debt income,

el aed

He 7¥4

HelloReging pica)


Page 26.0135,

> > >>|

labour market has loosened quite a it nce then
but wages wil Ul grow by nowy five per cant
112010 to reach the national average forthe
fest time. The growth rates have been highest
st consiructon and the aecommmodabon/food
Services Sectors. (Source sasktrendsca)

+ Calgary eoresents a tay target cy for what
Regina has to ofter because ts resents may be
struggling to make ends rest dv tothe hgh
ost of

+ Average pice of shome in Regina's $253:940,
Calgary $885.72 and the national average
'$324:928 Sources CMC Housng Market
Outlook July 2010, The Conadan Real Estate
‘Assocation Aug, 2010)

+The monthly mortgage payment on the average
home Regina s $1333 the averagenome in
Calgary s $1962 per morth. The variance pay=
‘ment over the Ife of te mortgage r= $28,700.
That an extra $128000 tor chien’ edu
‘ton, starting a busness, balding a etrement
maine ('Source REC on-tne mortgage calcu

{ator monthly payments, fve-yer fined poste

‘ate £39 percent over 25 year amortization)

+ Calgary residents may be “commuter weary
wie many Regnans are able to walk to work
because

+ tis smaler ty, The commute m Regina means
amore thana 4S-mnute drive, butin most
Cases takes les than 20 minutes

+ Calgarians spend an average of 66 minutes
the read, wth many suburban tes spending over
an hour and a half gang to and from work each
Business day (ScurceStatsCan 2006).

Contact information


Attachment st35

} Chatham-Kent
Culltivaking Growth, Shore to Shore

Corporate Use of Municipal & Community
Branding Guidelines

January 2013

Page 28 01 35,

> Chatham-Kent Municipal Corporate & Community

isaac an Branding Guidelines

Table of Contents

Chatham-Kent Corporate Brand.
10 nedction
200veview
30 Grad Architecture =
'4.0Cove BrandmarkStandads
41 Minimum Sie
42 Brandmark Spacing Standards
413 Brandmark Colour Standard a
44 Bandar oo Apa - =
45 Marketing Go = :
‘No Lined Exceptions. ——— =
‘4.61 Sanctioned Saker & Community Parnes
4.62 Approved Public Access
447 Profesional Typographic & Pring Sond - a
4.8 improper Brandmark Usoge. aren
4.9 Brandmark leon used aa Sind alone Elem " 14
‘5.0 Brochures & Other Professionally Produced Products. - z 16
6.0 Municipal Marketing Gaps 2t
7.0 lle Formats fr Proessonal Graphic Design & Printing. 8
{8.0 General Stionery Aplications for rites . 27
‘3.1 General Business Card aac "28
15.2 General Letterhead me)
13 General Envelope 0
8.4 General Fax Cover Sheet CN
5 Ceneral Memo, 2
1.6 Media Release Shest %
9.0 Newpaper Advertisements Black & Whit). 3
100 Website Applications aameeery
11.0 Githing Appiations. a 7
1120 Feet frandmark Placement 2 38

Appendices
Use of the Chatham-Kent rest
‘Graphic Design Speccatins - wiv chatham-kenta

www.chatham-kent.ca


‘Municipal Corporate & Community
Branding Guidelines

1.0 Introduction

Corporate Brand Management
The Municipality of Chatham Kent Corporate &
Comment Branding Guidelines ave adminisere bythe
‘Communications Office under the authority ofthe Chief
‘Adminisvatve Oficee

Permission to se the Corporate Brand outside of these
uielines must ne received fom the Municipality of
Eathan Kents Communications Ofce,

Application
‘The corporate brand guidelines spel toll print colaterl
and hard and eleenome mvketingommunicaons materal.
inaddion to oficial eorespondence, epors fleet marking,
lating, and munepal signage

‘Any preexisting vision and department sub-brands should
‘not be wed however marketing graphics description and
information wal be adeed on page 21 All depariments
‘ust achere tothe Corporate & Commanity Branding
Guidelines

Guidetines Assistance
you should have any questions regarding the application of

the guideline repre digital brandmark fs, please email
‘communications catham-ken.ca or call S19) 360-1958.

‘Transition Period
‘Tocensutecostefecinenes.componenss within these
_gidelines are being phased into pert all busines uns to
‘he existing supplies of non-complement materia

‘Al mariting and eernal communications materia must
adhere to these guidelines 8 of anuay 1, 2013

www.chatham-kent.ca

Page 29.1 35,

} chathamkent

Cultivating Growth, Shore te Shore


} ChathamKent

Cudtevating Grout. Shere te Shore

2.0 Overview

‘What does “brand” mean?
(Chatham-Kent brandi greater than is logo or tagline,
roving a visu sum of te municipality positive qualities.
‘The brand wil provide the Municipality wih signature,
kin toa personal signature. Just 2 a pesonal signature
‘oldates document a brandmark provides significance and
recognition to municipal ters,

‘Why do we need a brand?
Cathars Kents competing with hunched of muniipaies
‘within Ontario and aos Canada for new businesses,
residents tours, and government funding sources.

Its important that Chathan Ker preset el a 3 united,
dynamic ad unique community and alo diferente self
from other mustcipaies

‘The benefits of a consistent brand

‘cleat unifgem use of the brand guidelines is cra to
tersure corporate prsesionalsm anid recognizabiity 0
resdent,Consmunities, stakeholders and other interested
‘external pate, This applications important electvely
‘communicate Chathm Kents overarching essence and
qualiies,

“The band’s consistent aplication will parte Chatham
Kent services Fom other corporations and organizations.
‘This wl foster immediate resident ecogiton

“The Chatham-Kent Logo
CCatham-Kents logo sounded on a patchwork quit
‘motif The dfniton of a patchwork quit

“needlework in which smal pices of spate pices of
cloth are sewn tagethe 10 forma psig whol,”

‘provides postive analogy of Cathar» Kent that ebodes
the municipal cohesive sprk. Rendered in green and
be, the logo ako represent the Ferland and sureunding
waters of Chatham-Kent

‘The Chatham-Kent logo was designed to provide
an averching ident forthe community. Dring
‘evelopment the following elements were sen as
‘commonalities inthe Riser foundation and ute
{spatons oll ateas of the Municipal

Page 30.0135,

‘Municipal Corporate & Community
‘Branding Guidelines

Importance of Water - Water provided the primary
tramportation routes or Fist

Nations and European sess. ll communities within
‘Chatham-Kent were eld hecause of proximity 0

Hisorially, water was ciclo the es shment and
Continuation of Chatham-Kent’ pimary acme
Sgrcultre andthe commercial hing Beet Water-based
recreational atts of al ypes ate salable within the
‘Municipality, providing an addona econome driver that's
enjoyed by residents and vistors ai

‘The colour blve hasbeen incorporated into the brandmark 0
represent the sigficance of water to Chatham-Kent

Irportance of tnd -As nosed. agricul has been
\Chatham-Kents economic tase for centuries The Importance
‘of his industy continues to increase.

Chatham Kents positv approach wo encouraging the
sustainable growth of new and exiting renewable energy
owes, envionment incites. and elated techncegles
represents» svong laowart looking penpectve These
‘rents ae represen the brandmark tough he
‘colour geen.

‘The Chatham-Kent Tagine

This Counci- approved tagline, “Coliating Growth, Shore
to Shoe" ideas Chatham-Kent a a community tha.
ierooted and growing due the strength and potential of
agriculture The tagline alo plays that CK's “livaing
growth” i all sectors busines, indus agriculture, tourism
fd resident traction,

‘Logo + Tagline = Full Chatham-Kent Brandmark
‘he Corporate and Community brandmark just one part of
the brand, butts avery imparart part ofthe brand becouse
Iteepresens the Munciplay sigatre. The brandmark
should be respected as it represents the support ofthe
‘Municipality wherever it publicly appeas

www.chatham-kent.ca

Page 31 0138,

‘Municipal Corporate & Community > Chatham-Kent

Branding Guidelines
a Cultivating Growth. Sherete Shere

3.0 Corporate Use of the CK Commu

For assizance with including your respective busines un
please email ccommunicatonse chatham-kentca of cll
(519) 350-1988, exesion 3624

Core Brand vs Corporate Brand
‘he CX Community Brandmark contains ou Core Brand,
which san overarching, distinc visual that conveys
{Chathaen Ken essence, The core brand, when combined
swath mooicipal name information, consitaes the CK
Compra Brand

‘Municipal Marketing Graphics
eons and marketing graphics epreseting municipal
Facies, products serices mast comply with these
_uielines in ems ofthe placement with he Core Brand.

Departments Should Not Have Their
‘Own Brands

The mancinlay has on€ Core Brand, Though is consistent
application the muncpaliy and ts provided services wil
fm Increased stncon ad ei

ly Brandmark

Asking the pubic to identi Chatharn Kent with more than
‘ne brandmark wil mini the Core Brand's elfecivenes.
\When divisions and deparmens use thei own marks, the
lipact and cohesiveness of bath symbas becomes date
snd can confuse auchences.

‘The comprehensive use ofthe Core Brand will ensure postive
benefits or the ent community.

www.chatham-kent.ca


} Chatham-Kent

Caltivating Gronth. Shore to Shere

4.0 Core Brandmark Standards

‘The prominent use ofthe brandmak is visual sign and
reminder othe viewer thatthe communication jus seen has
‘been presented by Chatham-Kent.

The Chatham-Kent Brandmark

Page $2.01 35,

‘Municipal Corporate & Community
Branding Guidelines

& Chatham-Kent

cKicon

CK ogo & tagline

41 Minimum size

MINIMUM SIZE

+= Within print mat the icon element must never be
reproduced at ess than 025" ia heighe

+ To ensue lepblity within a dig format the icon element
st be not be les than 16 piel

+ With espectta sizing the brandmark, legibility should
2hvays be the determining factor

4.2 Brandmark Spacing Standards
[MINIMUM CLEAR SPACE
‘In any format. recangolar clear space mst be fet
‘around the brandmark, The minimum distance above and
below tse brandmark isthe height ofthe icon rom the
Centerpoint. The minimum distance tothe let and ight of
the brandmak the width ofthe icon fom the fist and ast
eter

1 This clear space must be maintained when the brandmark is
placed in conjunction with texto oer deniers

Cultovating Growth, Shore to Shere
ee ey

Minimum size in print

oars-|

}Chathamkent

Cty ath Shale She

(Minimum size in web

CD ¢

1 pivels x 16 pixels
20P)

025"

}ChathamKent

Caltvating Growth, Shovete Shore

www.chatham-kent.ca

edsGy
renvilfe

EP ea Guide
rev: January 2013


Page 34 of 36

Content

‘The Leeds Grerile brand - . -
‘The Importance of consistency:
Transition period

ur logo ts meaning.

ur logo: ts importance. - . a -
Counties crest
(Our slogan ts meaning -

Design: colour palette .

How to use our lage: colour variations -

How to use our loge: buffer zone and minimum sie.

Incorrect usage of our lo90.. — °
Design: fonts. -
Design: primary look and fen snssnnnn -
Publication samples... soos
‘Design: accommodating our municipal partners’ brands, oe 3

Stationery ae ne
Forms. - ~ - 16
PowerPoint template. en v7
External Signs 7
Email - - — 18
Brochures. ssn — et)
Advertsing 20
Feet. 2
Promotional tems... a - en)
Miscellaneous. - 2
EA Bi8 os os os 24
Appendix A: Style Guide oe nnnnennnnnsnnnn - son 26
Anpendix: Webste Content Technical Standard nse — 32
‘Appendix: Newsletter Guidelines — - 38

LEEDS GRENVILLE BRANDING GUIDE JANUARY 2013,

Page 35 0135,

renville

The Leeds Grenville brand

The Leeds Grenville brand was bom out of the diversity, economic opportunity and lifestyle our
region offers businesses, residents and tourists alike.

(ur logo is a symbolic representation of key aspects of our geography, infrastructure and
cultural characteristics including:

the unification of two counties (Leeds and Grenville), ten municipal members and three
partner municipalities

economic corridors ot opportunity offering benefits to businesses establishing
themselves within

transportation linkages by land, water, rail and air that afford benefits to businesses and
travellers

easy and close access to the USA
progressive place to locate and grow a business or family
a high quality of life thats culturally rich, active and diverse
unique, natural and historic amenities that are globally recognized

diverse geography featuring agricutural, recreational, natural and urban landscapes;
and

‘our commitment to an integrated community sustainabilty plan that focuses on the
environment, economic development, social and culture.

‘The following pages provide descriptions and examples that fully illustrate our brand and show
its potential

LEEDS GRENVILLE BRANDING GUIDE JANUARY 2013,

Page 36 of 36

The Importance of consistency

‘The Corporate brand represents the United Counties of Leeds and Grerwille, A clear, uniform
Use of the branding guidelines is ortical to ensure corporate professionalism and
recognizabilty from everyone including residents, communities, stakeholders, etc. The brand's
consistent application will foster immediate recognition.

‘The Branding Guide is a tool to ensure all marketing/communications produced by staff and
associates are consistent. It is important to identity Leeds Grenville with one brandmark
otherwise the brand's effectiveness will be diminished. When divisions and dopariments use
their own trademark, the impact and cohesiveness of both styles becomes diluted and can
confuse audiences.

Permission to use the corporate logo outside these guidelines must receive Branding
Committee approval.

Transition period

To ensure cost-effectiveness, itis recognized the change over to the new brand will be phased
Into allow departments time to deplete existing supplies of non-compliant material. As supplies
diminish, itis expected publications will be redesigned to the standards of the new brand.
‘Changeover should happen within the following time periods:

Short-term (1-2 years): website, forms
Mid-term (2-3 years): brochures, promotional material
‘Long-term (3-5 years): vehicles, signs

LEEDS GRENVILLE BRANDING GUIDE JANUARY 2013, 2

