QO Economic Development &

BROCKVILLE Planning Committee
Tuesday, January 05, 2016, 5:15 pm
COMMITTEE MINUTES City Hall, Council Chambers:

Members Present:
Councillor P. Dery, Chair
Councillor L. Bursey

Councillor M. Kalivas

Councillor D. LeSueur

Mayor D. Henderson, Ex-Officio

Other Council Members:
Councillor J. Baker (arrived 5:55 pm)

Staff:
Mr. 3. Faurschou, Planner I

Ms. S. MacDonald, City Clerk

Ms. L. Murray, Deputy City Clerk (Recording Secretary)
Mr. D. Paul, Director of Economic Development

Mr. P. Raabe, Director of Environmental Services

‘The Chair called the meeting to order at 5:15 p.m,
DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST

Nil.

DELEGATIONS AND PRESENTATIONS

Nil.

CORRESPONDENCE

Nil.

Page 1 of 4

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Committee Minutes -
Tuesday, January 05, 2016

STAFF REPORTS

Page 2 of 4

2016-02-01
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014
100 Stewart Boulevard, Brockville

Owner: Royal Brock Retirement Living Inc.

Moved by: Councillor Kalivas

THAT Zoning By-law 050-2015 be amended to modify the C2-9 General
Commercial Special Exception Zone in effect on lands with municipal address
100 Stewart Boulevard to allow those uses permitted in the C2 Zone as well
as a retirement home.

CARRIED

Mr. Faurschou summarized the report for the Committee stating that the
applicants and co-owners were in attendance at the meeting should the
Committee have any questions.

Councillor Kalivas stated that he is hearing very positive comments from the
public. He asked for a brief update on the project timelines, proposed
employees etc.

Mr. Tom Gallivan, of Gallivan Developments responded that they are
currently in Phase 1 and are about 89% through this phase. They hope to
have the project completed by the end of August 2016. They currently
employ about 10 people with that number growing to 40 to 55 upon the
opening of the facility. They will host a job fair when the project completion
draws nearer. Mr. Gallivan added that they are also using local contractors
for the construction currently underway.

2016-04-01
Request to Stop Up, Close and Dispose of a portion
of Charles Street to Brockville General Hospital

Moved by: Councillor Kalivas
‘THAT Council declare that Charles Street between Ormond Street and

Bartholomew Street to be surplus and authorize the stop up and close of
said lands conditional upon suitable resolution between the property owner

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Committee Minutes -
Tuesday, January 05, 2016

of 135 Ormond Street and the Brockville General Hospital concerning access
to the 2nd floor at 135 Ormond Street.

THAT the subject property be sold to the Brockville General Hospital for two
dollars ($2.00) plus all associated costs on the transaction inclusive of
publication notices, survey and legal costs subject to easements to water,
sewer, Bell and Cogeco; and

THAT the Mayor and Clerk be authorized to execute all necessary documents
to give effect to the intention thereof.

CARRIED

Ms. MacDonald reviewed the report for the Committee. She added that
there are a couple of issues that still need to be completed. The owner of
135 Ormond and the Hospital are still in talks regarding access from Charles
to the second floor of their building. As well the added traffic on
Bartholomew because of the new service entrance has created some
concerns. Ms. MacDonald was confident that these issues will be dealt with
but was not prepared to comment on the hospitals behalf.

Ms, MacDonald stated that in order to close a public highway, public notice
of the City’s intention is required in order to pass the by-law.

NEW BUSINESS - REPORTS FROM MEMBERS OF COUNCIL

Nil.
CONSENT AGENDA
THAT the following items be placed on the Consent Agenda:
1. 2016-002-01
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014
100 Stewart Boulevard, Brockville
2. 2016-004-01

Request to Stop Up, Close and Dispose of a portion
of Charles Street to Brockville General Hospital

Page 3 of 4

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Committee Minutes -
Tuesday, January 05, 2016

MOTION TO MOVE INTO CLOSED SESSION (5:34 PM)
Moved by: Councillor Bursey

‘THAT pursuant to Municipal Act, 2001, Section 239, Sub. 2, (c), the Committee
resolve itself into Closed Session to consider:

1. a proposed or pending acquisition or disposition of land by the
municipality or local board;

CARRIED
REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE FROM CLOSED SESSION
Moved by: Councillor Kalivas

THAT the EDP Committee rise from Closed Session and the Chairman report
that all recommendation(s) adopted in Closed Session, be adopted.

CARRIED
ADJOURNMENT
Moved by: Councillor Kalivas

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee adjourned its meeting
until the next regular meeting scheduled for February 2, 2016.

CARRIED

The meeting adjourned at 6:30 pm.

Page 4 of 4

