a Public Meeting

sees Economic Development &
vor [eo scaNDE Planning Committee

Tuesday, September 02, 2014, 6:00 pm
COMMITTEE MINUTES City Hall, Council Chambers

‘Committee Members:
Councilor M. McFall, Chair

Councillor D. Beatty

Councilor M. Kalivas

Councillor D. LeSueur

Councillor Mayor D. Henderson, Ex-Otticio

Staff:
Mr. J. Faurschou, Planner |

Ms. S. MacDonald, City Clerk (Recording Secretary)
Mr. A. McGinnis, Planner It

Ms. M. Pascoe Merkley, Director of Planning

‘The Chair called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.

Councillor McFall declared a contlict of interest with regard to Report 2014-097-09, as the
applicant is a client. Councillor Kalivas assumed the Chair for this item.

Tem

1. 2014-097-09
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-Law 050-2014
Part Lot 15, Concession 2, Stewart Blvd.
City of Brockville
‘Owner: 121414 Canada Ltd
Applicant: 534499 Ontario Limited
File: D14-001

‘THAT Report 2014-097-09 be received as information and that a report on this matter
be prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic Development Planning
Committee at a future meeting.

CARRIED

Mr. A. McGinnis, Planner Il, announced that the Notice of Public Meeting respecting the
‘application for Zoning By-law Amendment was advertised in the Brockville Recorder
land Times Newspaper on August 7, 2014 and was circulated to property owners within
120.0 metres (400.0 tt of the subject property. In addition, a sign was posted on the

Page 1 of 3

Economic Development and Planning Committee Public Meeting Minutes
Tuesday, September 02, 2014

‘subject property advising that the lands are the subject of an Application for Amendment
to the City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014

Councilor Kalivas, Acting Chair, asked that any person wanting further notice of the
passage of the proposed amendment should give their fullname, address and postal
code to the Secretary prior to leaving the meeting,

Councilor Kalivas reviewed the procedures for the Public Meeting,

Mr. Rick Walker, Walker Developments spoke in favour of the application. Mr. Walker
explained that he was looking at the development for automobile use as the current
Toyota dealership property is small. He stated he would lke bigger service bays and
have a service drive-through which would be difficult to accommodate at the present
site, The land will be purchased with the intent of servicing the property al a cost of
‘$350,000 plus the new development charges.

Mr. Robert Fraser of 1324 Windsor Drive, Brockville spoke to the application and asked
whether the unsold lands located behind the severed lands would be serviced also. Ms.
Pascoe-Merkley stated that those lands would be serviced in the future through the
‘extension of Laurier Blvd

Councillor McFall re-assumed the Chair.
‘The meeting adjourned at 6:23 pm

The Request for Information Sheets are on file in the Clerk's Office.

‘The Chair called the meeting to order at 6:25 pm

2 2014-096-09
Proposed Plan of Subdivision
Part Lot 11, Concession 2
Gity of Brockville
Rockford Forest (Formerly Deer Trails)
‘Owner: Cathedral Enterprises Lid
‘Agent: Eastern Engineering Group Inc.
File: 08T-14501

Page 2013

Economic Development and Planning Committee Public Meeting Minutes
Tuesday, September 02, 2014

THAT Report 2014-096-09 be received as information and that a report on this matter
bbe prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic Development and Planning
‘Committee at a future meeting for recommendation to Council

CARRIED

Mr. A. McGinnis, Planner Il, announced that the Notice of Public Meeting respecting the
Proposed Plan of Subdivision was advertised in the Brockville Recorder and Times
Newspaper on August 7th, 2014 and was circulated to property owners within 120.0
metres (400.0 ft.) of the subject property. In addition, a sign was posted on the subject
property advising that the lands are the subject of a Proposed Plan of Subdivision.
Councilor McFall, Chair, asked that any person wanting further notice of the passage of
the proposed Pian of Subdivision should give their fullname, address and postal code
to the Secretary prior to leaving the meeting,

Councillor McFall reviewed the procedures for the Public Meeting.

Mr. Brian Tuttle, Eastern Engineering, Agent for the Applicant, stated that a draft plan
had previously been approved and has now lapsed. The current proposal is consistent
with the previously approved plan.

Mr. Roger Fulford of 1436 Flanders Road stated that there was certainly a need for one
story town houses and asked that construction vehicles be prohibited from using
Flanders Rd. and alternately use Laurier Blvd. to enter and exit. He suggested leaving
the barricade at the end of Flanders Rd. to control traffic.

Mr. Eugene Grady of 66 Hillcrest Dr. suggested that the road way be changed to the
‘east side rather than the west side. This would allow the residents of Hillrest Dr. to
connect to the City services and provide additional privacy. He asked if the properties
behind Hillcrest Dr. would be fenced. Mr. Tuttle responded that a sanitary sewer
‘easement would be from Laurier Blvd. and there would be an outlet in the current plan
with the side that itis on, There was no discussion on fencing,

Ms. Krista Ng of 1026 Fitzsimmons Dr. would like to see as many trees as possible
saved. She asked what the construction time line would be. Mr. Tuttle stated that
construction would startin the spring of 2015 at Laurier Blvd

‘The meeting adjourned at 6:51 pm

The Request for Information Sheets are on file in the Clerk's Office.

Page 3.013

