Page 1 of 12

Economic Development and
Planning Committee

Tuesday, October 3, 2017, 6:00 pm
City Hall, Council Chambers

Committee Members Areas of Responsibility
Councillor D. LeSueur, Economic Development Economic Development
Chair Planning Advisory Team
Councillor J. Baker Chamber of Commerce Museum Board
Councilor J. Earle DBIA Ubrary Board
Councillor M. Kalivas Heritage Brockville Arts Centre
Mayor D. Henderson, Tourism
Ex-Officio

Page PUBLIC MEETING

AGENDA

Report

2-12 1, 2017-10-10
Proposed Amendments to the Official Plan
and Zoning By-law 050-2014,
100 Strowger Bivd., Apex Building,
City of Brockville, Owner: Apex Logistics Inc.,
Agent: Collett Surveying, Brent Collett

THAT Report 2017-100-10 be received as information and that a
report on this matter be prepared by staff for consideration of the
Economic Development Planning Committee (EDP) at a future
‘meeting.

25September2017
REPORT TO THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING CONIMITTEE - PUBLIC
MEETING ~ 3 OCTOBER 2017

2017-100-10
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE D. pick
OFFICIAL PLAN AND ZONING BY-LAW DIRECTOR OF PLANNING (Acting)
050-2014, 100 STROWER BOULEVARD, ANDREW MCGINNIS
‘APEX BUILDING, CITY OF BROCKVILLE PLANNER I

OWNER: APEX LOGISTICS INC.

AGEN’ COLLETT SURVEYING, BRENT COLLETT
FILES: 09-08 AND D14-024,1o:014
RECOMMENDATION

‘THAT Report 2017-100-10 be received as information and that a report on this matter
be prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic Development Planning
Committee (EPD) at a future meeting.

PURPOSE
To provide information for purposes of conducting a Public Meeting under the Planning

‘Act respecting Application for Amendment to the Official Plan for the City of Brockville
‘and Application for Amendment to City of Brockvile Zoning By-law 050-2014.

BACKGROUND

(On 28 August 2017, Mr. Brent Collett, acting as Agent for APEX Logistics Ltd., Owner of
1100 Strowger Boulevard, filed applications for amendment to City of Brockvile Official
Plan and to the City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014, which, if approved, would
Permit the subject lands to be used for a "Place of Worship”. The lands which are the
‘subject of the application are located on the west side of Strowger Boulevard, south of
Central Avenue, north of Hubbell Street, as shown on Schedule “A” attached hereto.
A proposed plan of the existing building is attached as Schedule “B” depicting the
space (o be occupied by the Place of Worship.

‘The subject lands are currently occupied by a large industrial building containing,
Warehousing, Light Industrial, Business and Professional Offices, a Clinic, Medical
Offices and ‘associated Pharmacy. Schedule “C”, attached to this report is a
description of the proposed project by the applicant, Mr. Brent Collett. Schedule “D” is
letter provided to Council by Mr. Don Heron, Facility Chait/The Pier Cheistian Church,
‘outlining the current situation and operation of The Pier.

Page 2 of 12

|
|


2017-40040 Page?
Public Movtlg Proposed Amendments to Oficial Plan and Zoning By-Law 060-2014

{oo strmper Boulovard

Owner APEX Logics

‘episant: Collet Sarveying Brent Colt

Fhe: Do0d8 and D14024peeann

ANALYSIS

Zoning and Official Plan informator

Official Plan Designation: Employment Area subject to Significant Woodland
Policies and the Cataraqui Region Conservation
‘Authority Screening Area Policies.

Proposed OP Amendment’ Employment Area - Site Specific, subject to
Significant Woodland Policies and th Cataraqui
Region Conservation Authority Screening Area
Policies.

Existing Zoning: 2-3 ~ General Employment Special Exception Zone

Proposed Zoning: 2-3 — General Employment Special Exception Zone
to permit a Place of Worship in addition to uses
already currently permitted.

Site Characteristics:

Total Area: 48.920

Frontage Strowger Bld: 3294

Frontage ~ Central Ave. 3204m

Frontage ~ Hubbell Street: 345.0m

The subject lands are currently occupied by a large industrial building containing,
Warehousing, Light Industrial, Business and Professional Offices, a Ciinio, Medical
Offices with associated Pharmacy and Parking. Photos of the subject property are
allached as Schedule "E”.

Page 8 of 12

Lands to the immediate north are zoned E2 ~ General
Employment Zone and occupied by the Upper Canada District
School Board,

North (across Central Ave.) | Lands located north (across Central Avenue) are zoned E2 ~
Goneral Employment Zone and occupied by a variety of

(across Stronger Blvd) | General Reskdentiat Special Exception Zone (new single
detached dwelings for Habitat for Human).

Employment uses.
South Lands to the south are zoned €2 — General Employment and
{across Hubbell Steet) | occupied by Career Services and the CN Tracks,

East Lands to the east are zoned OS ~ Open Space Zone and RS —

West Lands to the west are zoned E2 ~ General Employment and
‘occupied by CRS ~ Contractors Rental Supply.

i


zorr-0040
Public Meeting - Proposed Amendments to Oficial Plan and Zoning By-Law 0502014
{00 Svowger Soulovard

Owen, APEX Lopiatics

‘Ropicant: Collet Surveying - Brent Collett

het Does and 014834

‘Comments Received are summarized below:

41, Sandra MacDonald, City Clerk, Clerks Office
‘No concerns with regard to this application,

2. Brent Caskenette, CBO, Building Services Division, Planning Department:

‘+ No comments or concerns regarding the noted amendments,

Pages

3, Steve Allen, Supervisor of Engineering, Environmental Services Department:

‘+ Not opposed to the application.

4, Conal Cosgrove, Director of Operations, Operations Department:
‘+ No comments with tespect to this application

5. Ministry of Transportation, Stephen Kaputsa MCIP, RPP.

‘+ No concerms unless this is a mega church that will have services dally. If

80, we will enact the 800 metre permit control area

6, Hydro One, Local, Erin Hendricks
‘+ No objections to the proposed scope of work.

7. Enbridge — North York, Alice Coleman ~ Municipal Planning Coordinator

‘* No objection to the proposed applications.

Potential Issues for Discussion:

1. Appropriateness of the requested Official Pian Amendment to permit a

Place of Worship within the Employment Area,

2. Appropriateness of the requested Zoning By-law Amendment to permit a

"Place of Worship" within the General Employment Area Zone.

2. Proposed size and location of the Place of Worship. Should it be limited to

within the existing building only?

POLICY IMPLICATIONS.

The contents ofthis report are provided for information purposes for the Public Meeting.
Following the Public Meeting, Planning Department Staff wll prepare a report which will
include review and consideration of policies that are relevant to the requested

‘amendments.

Page 4 of 12


Prblic Mooting -Proposed Amendments to Oficial Plan and Zoning By 0502018
{00 Strowger Boulevard

Oumar, APEX Logiation

‘Applicant: Colt Surveying ~ Brent Collett

Flees" 6808 snd B14 824

Pago

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS

‘A complete application for Amendment to City of Brockville Official Plan and
‘Amendment to the City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 has been received,
including all applicable fees. Any additional costs relating to the re-designation,
rezoning and interior renovations to the existing building is the responsiblity of the

CONCLUSION

A Report on this matter, including a detalled analysis of the proposed amendments,
review and consideration of the issues raised at the Public Meeting and a
recommendation from Planning Staff, willbe prepared for consideration of the Economic
Development Planning Committee at a future meeting,

~ Lyfe

David Dick, CPA, CA kh hl, CIP, RPP, DipLMM
Director of Corporate Services and Planner It
Director of Planning (Acting)

B. Casselman
ily Manager

Page 5 of 12


Page 6 of 12

SCHEDULE “A” TO REPORT 2017-100-10


Page 7 of 12

SCHEDULE “B” TO REPORT 2017-100-10

3 Sarre,
Te ERTS

“SB MAnsoys,
IS wemonic -o0,

1074

Page 8 of 12

SCHEDULE “C” TO REPORT 2017-100-10

A COLI
‘mano Lo surveyors W Bas Calle $6 O18
Fig Se, Suite 205 (eyseaen alk iialsisnevinecace
Po.nee iat Soasraen
rsh, Omid Ko 5¥2

August 28, 2017

City of Brockville
1 King Street West
Brockville, On K6V TAS

Attention: inns
Dear Sir:

RE: Apex Logistics & The Pier Christian Church
Zonin. ications

Mr, Jag Chawla, the owner of 100 Strowger Blvd in Brockville has submitted an
application for Certificate of Zoning Compliance to ensure all proposed tenants comply
with the zoning. After recolving the results, it was determined by the City that all
potential tenants that were listed were in compliance except for one belng The Pier
Christian Church. Within the existing Official Plan a Place of Worship is not allowed
‘The definition of Place of Worship means ‘a building dedicated to religious worship’,

‘The proposed renovations within the overall 450,000 square foot building is just over
10% of the building, being 53,000 square feet. | The proposal for The Pier Christian
Church is to rent approximately 1,000 square fest of office space and to rent a multi-
purpose common space that would be setup like an auditorium. This auditorium space
‘would have the ablity to be divided into smaller socllons depending on the square
footage requirement ofthe tenants request. The Pier Christian Church would like to use
this space on Sunday mornings for Church when other agencies would not be using it.

Is It by dofinition, “a building dedicated to religious worship", when it is less than 3% of
the total square footage of the overall building and that 3% of the space is only boing
Used by the Church on Sunday momings for three (3) hours being close to 2% of the
possible time this multtpurpose spaco would be used through the week by other
{tenants which include evenings?

We do not consider the space being applied for in this application to be considered “a
building dedicated to religious worship’; however, we are wanting to be sure that The
Pior Christian Church is in compllance with the Official Plan and Zoning By-Laws.

Page 2...


Page 9 of 12

Page 2
‘Apex Lagistics & The Pier Christian Church
‘August 28, 2017

In contrast to this proposal, you seo in many Cities churches that purchase empty
Industrial bulldings end convert them over to church buildings. This has been well
recelved and functions great in an industrial area since the concentrated activity at the
Church Is whon most places are closed on Sunday moming. Industrial buildings are
being ullized because the demand for manufacturing in large industrial buildings is less.
Aso, it is an existing building that has large open spaces with no columns and lots of
parking which is the prefect scenario for a Church.

| bolieve that this application is good planning for the City of Brockville. It provides the
‘owner with another tenant with very litte upfront cost that will only provide a positive
impact toa large industrial space.

Please find onciosed the Official Plan Amendment Application and the Zoning
Amendment Application for 100 Strowger Boulevard along with our client's letter of
‘August 18, 2017. We are also enclosing our cheque for $3,475.

Yours truly,

COLLETT Bor Lr.

W, Brent Collett, B.Sc., O.L.S.

Ontario Land Surveyor

WaC\cm
Encl


Page 10 of 12

SCHEDULE “D” TO REPORT 2017-100-10
“st
the'|pier
P.0.Box 157 Brockville On. K6V 5V2 (613)}498-7729

Please he advised that Mr. Brent Collett has been asked to represent The Pier Christian Church
‘nan offical capacity with regards to this application and all other related matters.

“The Pier Christian Church has been open here in Brockville for the last ten years. We are a
congregation that is active in our community not only on Sundays but throughout the week.
‘You may already be aware of our lunch program that operates out of 25 Front St. and shares
‘an area with Loaves and Fishes who provide a dinner. We also run the Brockville River Club
‘and various other programs throughout the year.

‘Our Sunday service fs an important part of our ministry; however we place greater importance
‘on giving back to our community by offering practical services that help a variety of our
population.

‘As chalrman of The Pier facility committee, | wish to let you know that itis our desire to be
located at 100 Strovger Blvd. We are presently operating out of three different locations. 1)
51 King St. East - offces and small meetings. 2) 25 Front Ave. - daily noon hour feeding and
social program and 3) The Brockville Art Centre - Sunday morning service.

‘The Stowger Blvd location would allow us the opportunity to move our offices to ths location
pls our Sunday morning service could be accommodated in a multifunction room at the
same location. This would give us a permanent home for Sundays mornings as frequently
there are other activities at the Brockville Art Centre which cause us to have to relocate our
services. Also because BAC has no available storage space for us, we are required to move our
‘equipment in and out every Sunday. This would all be resolved with this new location.

“The Pier Christian Church is very excited about this new opportunity and we feel that it will
allow us the chance to serve our city even better.

Due to the nature of the work that The Pler does in our community as a charitable
organization, we would also request that the city be so generous as to reimburse our
application fee for this rezoning process.

“Thank you for your careful consideration of this matter:

Facility Chair/ Thé ter Christian


Page 11 of 12

SCHEDULE “E” TO REPORT 2017-00-10


Page 12 of 12

