Page 1 of 43

a Economic Development and
BROCCMILE Planning Committee
BROCKVILEE Tuesday, July 7, 2015, 6:00 pm

ity Hall, Council Chambers

Areas of Responsibility
Councillor J. Baker, Economic Development Economic Development
Chair Planning Advisory Team.
Councillor L. Bursey Chamber of Commerce Museum Board
Councillor M. Kalivas DBIA brary Board
Councillor D. LeSueur Heritage Brockville Arts Centre
Mayor D. Henderson, Tourism
Ex-Officio

Page PUBLIC MEETING

AGENDA

tem

2-43 1. 2015-073-07

Proposed Zoning By-Law Amendment Brockville General Hospital
Expansion 70, 75, 80, 94, 100, And 108 Charles Street, 94, 100, 118, 126,
134, 150, 152, 156 and 156a Bartholomew Street, and 150 And 156 Pearl
Street East, City Of Brockville

‘Owners: Brockville General Hospital, Doug and Debbie Brooks, Canadian
Red Gross Sociely

Applicant: Fotenn Consultants Inc.

File No.: D14-008(050-2014)

THAT Report 2015-073-07 be received as information and that a report on
this matter be prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic
Development Planning Committee at a future meeting.

Page 2 of 43

29June2015

REPORT TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE - PUBLIC
MEETING — July 7, 2015

2015-073-07
PROPOSED ZONING BY-LAW AMENDMENT M, PASCOE MERKLEY
BROCKVILLE GENERAL HOSPITAL EXPANSION DIRECTOR OF PLANNING

70, 75, 80, 94, 100, AND 108 CHARLES STREET,
94, 100, 118, 126, 134, 150, 152, 156 AND 156A,
BARTHOLOMEW STREET, AND 150 AND 156
PEARL STREET EAST, CITY OF BROCKVILLE
‘OWNERS: BROCKVILLE GENERAL HOSPITAL,
DOUG AND DEBBIE BROOKS, CANADIAN

RED CROSS SOCIETY

APPLICANT: FOTENN CONSULTANTS INC.
FILE NO.: D14-008(os0.2016

RECOMMENDED

THAT Report 2015-073-07 be received as information and that a report on this matter
be prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic Development Planning
Committee at a future meeting,

PURPOSE

FoTenn Consultants Inc., acting on behaif of Brockville General Hospital, Doug and
Debbie Brooks and the Canadian Red Cross, owners of lands with the following
municipal addresses: 70, 75, 80, 94, 100, and 108 Charles Street; 94, 100, 118, 126,
134, 150, 182, 186 and 156A Bartholomew Street; and 150 and 156 Pearl Street East;
has submitted an application for amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014, as amended,
with respect to the subject lands.

The proposed amendment would, if approved, allow the subject lands to be
redeveloped for an expansion of the hospital faciity located at 75 Charles Street,
including a new wing and expanded parking area.

ANALYSIS

Schedule “A” to this report is a copy of the proposed site plan for the consolidated
hospital lands.

‘Schedule “B” to this report is the Planning Report prepared by FoTenn Consultants.
Inc.

Page 3 of 43

2015-07307

Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment for Brockville General Hospital Expansion

Subject lands: 70, 75, 60, 94, 100, and 108 Charles Street; 94, 100, 118, 126, 134,
1150, 162, 156 and 186A Bartholomew Street; 180 and 156 Pear Strost East,
City OF Brockville

Owners: Brockville General Hospital, Doug and Debbie Brooks, Canadian
Red Gross Society

Applicant: _Fotenn Consultants inc.

PleNo: — B44007pmane
Zoning and Oficial Plan information:
Official Plan Designation: Institutional Area

Existing Zoning on Consolidated Lands:

The lands which have recently been consolidated by the Brockville General Hospital are
currently zoned R3-General Residential, E3-1-Restricted Employment Special
Exception, and It~General Institutional Zone.

Proposed Zoning: 11 — General institutional Special Exception Zone

The proposed amendment would establish a
consistent zoning for the recently consolidated
hospital lands and would recognize a reduced
setback of the existing hospital faciity from Ormond
Street which is proposed to become the property's
front yard once Charles Street is closed.

A separate request is being made for the stop-up and
close of Charles Street between Ormond and
Bartholomew Streets.

Site Characteristics:

Total Aroa: 61,739.0 m (6.17 hectares/15.25 acres)

Frontage: 186.0 m (610.24 ft) - Ormond Street
219.0 m (718.50 ft) ~ Pearl Street East
316.0 m (1,033.46) ~ Bartholomew Street

Average Depth: Approximately 230.0 m (754.59 ft)

‘The subject property is currently developed for the Brockville General Hospital with
associated parking. Lands that have been consolidated provide the area required for
the proposed expansion and the creation of new parking areas. As noted from the
sketch attached to this report as Schedule "A", the building expansion will be located
east of the existing hospital facility. The north east portion of the property is proposed
{for parking areas.


Page 4 of 43

2015-073-07
Proposed Zoning By-law Amendmant for Brockvile General Hospital Expansion
‘Subject lands: 70, 75,80, 94, 100, and 108 Charles Streot; 84, 100, 118, 126, 134,

150, 152, 18 ana 156A Bartholomew Stroc; 180 and 150 Pea Street East,
City OF Brockvile

‘Owners: Brockville General Hospital, Doug and Debbie Brooks, Canadian
Red Gross Society

‘Applicant: Fotenn Consultants Inc.

PheNo: — D14087pi0anq

‘Surrounding Land Uses:

‘The lands to the north are occupied by the CN mainline.

‘The lands to the east (east side of Bartholomew Street) are zoned !1-
General institutional Zone occupied by Commonwealth School.

South: The lands to the south (south side of Peart Stroot East) are zoned R3-
General Residential Zone ocoupied by older residential dwellings; and C2-
7 General Commercial Special Exception Zone occupied by the Barclay
Funeral Home.
West: The lands to the west (west side of Ormond Street) are zoned I1-General
Institutonal Zone occupied by Brockville Collegiate High School; and R3-
General Residential Zone occupied by older residential dwalings.
‘Comments Received Schedule “C”
4. Environmental Services, City of Brockville (ema dated June 28, 2015)
Not opposed to the rezoning. More input will be provided at the design stage
regarding servicing and Charies Street infrastructure.
2, Canadian National Railway (CNR) (soe attached eral dated June 16,2015)

CN would lke to have the opportunity to review a noise study as the land use in
this case is considered to be sensitive,

CN has conoems of fencing, drainage and access on the site.
Full CN comments are stated in the attached email,
3. Operations Department, City of Brockville (se attached email dated June 23, 2018)
‘+ Concems respecting the proposed number of parking spaces at 739

spaces and not 760 parking spaces as projected in the Transportation
Planning Study;

Page 5 of 43

2015.073.07
Proposed Zoning By-taw Amendment for Brockville General Hospital Expansion
‘Subject lands: 70, 75,80, 94, 100, and 108 Charles Street; 94, 100, 118, 126, 134,

4150, 182, 156 and 156A Bartholomew Street; 180 and 156 Pearl Street East,

City OF Brockville

‘Owners: Brockville General Hospital, Doug and Debbie Brooks, Canadian
Red Cross Society

‘Applicant: Fotenn Consultants inc.

FilgNo: ——D14007paa-)

‘+ Suggest a meeting between the City, Brockville General Hospital and the
Upper Canada School Board to review recommendation in the
Transportation Planning Study related to the service entrance on
Bartholomew, and

‘© Status of Charles Street unclear on the site plan as to whether it will
remain as a public street or an intemal roadway for the hospital site. The
Operations Department would prefer that Charles Street road allowance
be transferred to the hospital to avoid maintenance concems.

Planning Dept., Building Services Division (memo dated June 18, 2018)

‘No concems at this time. A complete review of construction drawings at the time
‘of application for building permit may reveal requirements. under the Ontario
Building Code which may affect the site development.

Lawyer for Adjacent Property Owner at 135 Ormond Street (see stiached letter dated
Juno 19, 2018)

Letter submitted by Mr. Hamy Greenberg, representing 182562 Ontario inc.,
raised the following concerns:

“1. The proximity of the electrical station may be a problem due to possible
electrical discharges affecting the medical building. The station should be
removed to a further sit."

Charles Street should not be closed until past our client's building as there
is a handicapped walkway from the building onto Charles. Street,
Furthermore deliveries to the building are made through Charles Street.”

6. Enbridge Gas Distribution, (see attached emal dated June 26,2015)
Enbridge Gas Distribution does not object to the proposed application.
‘Comments have been provided respecting contact by the applicant to Enbridge

Gas Distribution for service, meter installation details and confirmation of gas
‘main needs and existing piping facies.

Full comments provided by Enbridge Gas Distribution are stated in the attached
ema

2015073.07
Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment for Brockville General Hospital Expansion
‘Subject lands: 70, 75,80, 94, 100, and 108 Charles Street; 94, 100, 118, 126, 134,

Page 6 of 43

4150, 182, 156 and 156A Bartholomew Streot; 150 and 156 Pearl Street East,

City OF Brockville

‘Owners: Brockville General Hospital, Doug and Debbie Brooks, Canadian
Red Cross Society

‘Applicant: Fotenn Consuitants inc.

FileNo: —— D14007psas06

‘+ Suggest a meeting between the City, Brockville General Hospital and the
Upper Canada School Board to review recommendation in the
Transportation Planning Study related to the service entrance on
Bartholomew, and

‘© Status of Charles Street unclear on the site plan as to whether it wil
remain as a public street or an intemal roadway for the hospital site. The
‘Operations Department would prefer that Charles Street road allowance
be transferred to the hospital to avoid maintenance concems.

4, Planning Dept., Building Services Division (memo dated June 18, 2015)
No concems at this time. A complete review of construction drawings at the time
‘of application for building permit may reveal requirements under the Ontario
Building Code which may affect the site development.

5. Lawyer for Adjacent Property Owner at 135 Ormond Street (see attached letter dated

une 19, 2018)

Letter submitted by Mr. Hay Greenberg, representing 182562 Ontario Inc.,
raised the following concerns:

“1. ‘The proximity of the electrical station may be a problem due to possible
electrical discharges affecting the medical building. The station should be
removed to a further site.”

"2. Charles Street should not be closed until past our client's building as there
is a handicapped walkway from the building onto Charles Street.
Furthermore deliveries to the building are made through Charles Street.”

Potential Issues for Discussio

Requirement of a Noise Study.

Potential Parking Issues.

Charles St. closure

Design considerations:
i) Bartholomew St. location for service entrance
i) Electrical Station and proximity to neighbour

Page 7 of 43

1. Requirement of a Noise Study.

2. Potential Parking Issues.
3. Charles St, closure
4. Design considerations:
!) Bartholomew St. location for service entrance

li) Electrical Station and proximity to neighbour

POLICY IMPLICATIONS.

‘The contents of this report are provided for information purposes for the Public Meeting.
Following the Public Meeting, Planning Department Staff will prepare a report for
consideration of the Economic Development Planning Committee which will include
review and consideration of polices that are relevant to the proposed amendment.

CONCLUSION

‘The Staff Report on these matters, including a detailed analysis of the proposed
‘amendment, review and consideration of the issues raised at the public meeting and a
recommendation from Planning Staff, will be prepared for consideration of the Economic
Development Planning Committee at a future meeting

ee

7; RPP Bob Casselman
Director of Planning City Manager


Proposed Facility Expansion
Brockville General Hospital

Toning By-law Amendment

Planning Justification
June 42015

‘SUBMITTED FOR:

[BROCKVILLE GENERAL HOSPITAL
75Chares Street
Brockville, ON

kev 158

PREPARED BY:

FOTENN 2:3"
URBAN DESIGN
‘The Woolen Mill

‘6Cataraqui Street, Suite 108
Kingston, ON K7K 127
613.542.5454

‘wwrw otenn.com

Page 9 of 43

Page 10 of 43,

Site Organization and Utization.

Site Access and Creation...
Parking vos

Landscaping and Amenity Space... Sossnsn
Building Materials and Fagade Treatment o — 14
Sst NABI nnn — as

‘Traffic Impact Study.
Phase l Enviconmental Ste Assessment.
Phase 2 Environmental Ske Assessment.

(6. POLICY AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
Provincial Policy Statements.
City of Brockvile Offical Plan...

7. EXISTING AN PRovostD ZONING...

‘tty of Brockvle Comprehensive Zoning By aw. ~ a
‘Appropriateness of Requested Zoning Bylaw Amendment... .


Page 11 of 43

11, IntRoDucTION

‘This Planning Justifiation Report, prepared by FOTENN Consultants Inc. on behalf of Brockville General
Hospital and 2W Group, 's being provided in support of an application fr Zoning Bylaw Amendment for
‘the ands generally bound by Pear Stret, Ormond Street, Bartholomew Street and the CN Raway. This
application is being made to permit the expansion ofthe hospital fact located 2t 75 Charles Street,
Including a new wing and expanded parking area. A requests also being made to stop up and close the
portion of Charles Street between Ormond and Bartholomew Streets in order to accommodate the new
sit layout.

‘The purpose ofthis reports to assess the appropriateness ofthe proposed expansion and application in
the contest ofthe surounding community andthe policy and regulatory framework applicable tothe
subject site. Based on the required supporting materials identified through a pre-consutation meeting
with City staff which occurred on July 30,2014, the following items are provided in support of the
application

+ Conceptual site Plan
+ Teafficimpac Study

‘+ Transportation Planing Study

Phase 1 Environmental Site Assessment
“+ Phase 2 Enveonmental ite Assessment

2. SITE OVERVIEW AND CONTEXT

Brockville General Hospital (8GH) is» foursite community hospital. The subject property is known as
the Charles Stret site and offers a full ange of care services including emergency and intensive care,
rmeticaV/surgical care, obstetrical care, various ambulatory cincs, day surgery, ECG and stress testing,
radiology and utrasound, Ontario breast screening clinic and acute care mental health service

‘The subject ste is located in downtown Brockville and is generally bound by Bartholomew Street tothe
‘ast, Pearl Street East tothe south, Ormond Street to the west and Charles Street to the north. The
hospital has recently acquired several properties north of Chares Street in order to support the
Proposed expansion. The newly consolated parcel is approximately 63 hectares in sie and
iastrated on the next page in Figure 2. Note that the properties muncipally known as 80 Charles
‘Street, 98 Charles Street, 150/152 Bartholomew Stret and 156 Bartholomew Street ae currently under
‘separate ownership. Purchase agreements for these properties ae signed and ae expected to cose by
‘September 2015.

Page 12 of 43,

Page 13 of 43,

‘asde from the exsting hospital, the consolidated parcel s currently occupied by 2 number of
‘commercial and residential uses located along the north side of Charles Street and the westside of
Bartholomew Street. These uses are proposed to be demolished in order to accommodate the addition
‘and expanded parking area.

‘The subject sit Is located northeast of Brockvill's Central Business District. ts located within 2 stable
‘neighbourhood occupied by a mix of residential, institutional and commercial uses. The fllowing uses
‘are located directly adjacent to the consolidated property:

Page 14 of 43,

North: Low densty residential instationa medical offies) and commercisl
East Istttional (elementary schoo)

‘South: Low densy resident and commercial neal home)

West: Instational (secondary scheal nd low dens resident

‘The site Is well connected to amenities via loca roads such Bartholomew Street, as well a5 collector
rode, including Peal Street East and Ormond Street, The sites ako well serviced by transit. The Green
Bus Route runs along Ormond Street, providing acess to the north and south while the Red Bus Route
runs along Pear Steet East, providing access othe east and west.

3. SUMMARY OF PLANNING APPLICATIONS

‘A roning bylaw amendment is proposed to establish consistent zoning forthe newly consolidated
hospital ands. Therefore, lands curently zoned R3,£3-1 and It would become a single site specific.
zone, The rezoning will ako recognize a reduced setback ofthe exiting hospital faclty from Ormond
Stret, which will become the property's font yard once Charles Street i closed

'As noted previousy, the site plan 25 proposed will require the dosure of Charles Street between
‘Ormond and Bartholomew Streets, A separate request i being made to stop up and close this portion
‘of Charles Street, An easement will need to be established in favour of the muncpalty in order to
isintain access to existing water, gs, storm drains and sanitary sewers cutretl located below Charles
‘Street. Existing overhead hydro ines wil be relocated.

‘4, OvERviEW oF PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT

Brochvile General Hospital intends to expand the existing facility by constructing a 16,172 square metre
(174075 sq ft) addition. The addition will accommodate 29 new Mental Health beds in the Acste
‘Mental Health and Addictions Program and two inpatient floors of 32 beds each. All exsting functions
will remain within the current BGH faites, with the exception of the inpatient mental heath beds; and
‘elocated support facies, inclding Nutrition, Matera Management, Switchboard and Seeurty.

‘The design of the proposed addition seeks to minimize the building footprint snd maximize future
growth opportunities. The exsting hospital fact is located inthe southwest comer of the hospital
site. Ove to proximity ofthe bounding streets the only option for large-scale expansion i to the east.
‘The proposed expansion has been carefully located in the south east quadrant ofthe ste to allow for
‘maximum future growth and expansion,

Page 15 of 43,

‘Acquistion of Charles Street and land north of Chatls Street will provide the area needed for parking
associated with the proposed expansion. This land consolidation wil allow BGH to plan and construct
an integrated campus approach tothe ste allowing for optimal growth and flexibility.

‘Figure 3 Proposed Site Plan

Building Design
Design sues are addressed at all scales. At the neighbourhood sal, the new ation continues the
‘vocaton ofthe Charles Street hospital se. AL the te level the new bling ams oe together the
varied scales ofthe exiting buns through ks massing. The dferences between the older parts of
the hosptal and the newer ones (2003 and the proposed addon) ae bidged with human scaled
devices such the extended east-west mulevel publ gathering space and a sytem of courtacds
and accesible terraces, to crest a harmonious renewed mage ofthe Brockle Genel Hosp.

The addition itself 2 four storey structure plus penthouse, located tothe east ofthe exiting hospital,
‘The site configuration is organized to separate emergency traffic, service traffic and main entrance
traf. The main entrance remains in a similar location to the existing one to maintain intultve
wayfinding from the community

Page 16 of 43,

‘Figure 5: Proposed edaliton locking northwest from Pear Street

Site Organization and Utilization
‘The proposed addition and the new property boundary organize the ste into cleariy defined quadrants.
‘The northwest primarily remains dedicated tothe Emergency zone. The northeast forthe mast partis
dedicated to the Main Entrance, public parking and for Future expansion. The southeast corner is
defined by the inpatient tower, with the service component to the east. The southwest quadrant
contains the existing BGH buildings.

‘The defined quadrants separate and direct the various types of vehicular and pedestrian traffic flow,
‘This separation will ease congestion a the main destinations ofthe failty. Between these quadrants,
in the east/west direction, the existing main puble gathering space Is extended tote the composion
formally and functionally, grety enhancing the public realm ofthe site. Inthe north/south direction,
‘open entrance courtyards accentuate the four quadrant configuration

Site Access and Circulation

The new addition necessitates changes to the site access points. These revisions were carefull
considered to maintain a balance of circulation efficiency, minimize site disruption, improve culation

Page 17 of 43,

Page 18 of 43,

streaming and most importantly retain the main entrance route to support community identity and
warlinging

‘The site will have sx vehicular access points fom the three bounding roadways including:
11. Ambulance/Emergency entrance via Ormond Street (existing)
2, Secondary entrance via Pear Street
3, Main Campus Entrance via Ormond Street
4. Orthopedic drop-off (exiting)
5, Staff sccess via Bartholomew Street
6, Service/Loating via Bartholomew Street

Pedestrian access and connectivity has also been considered. A dedicated pedestrian and bicycle
‘ast/west route is located on both sides of the former Charles Street. The circulation route links
‘pedestrians withthe Staff Entrance tothe south and a signicant landscape zone stuated between the
‘building on the west and the Bartholomew parking lot on the eastside ofthe ste. Pedestrian filtration
‘through the site wil tle the facity to the community, For instance, the pedestrian and bicycle

10

Page 19 of 43,

relation encourages 2 safe route for neighbourhood high school students to reach the playing Fels
tothecast,

‘The north-south pedestrian rote Intersects the east/west corridor between the landscape zone and the
‘Bartholomew parking lot. It extends from the north end ofthe sit inking tothe new jogging trall and
‘proceeds south past the Pubic Court to the bus stop atthe corner of Peat Street and Bartholomew
street.

‘Adtional parking is required to support the proposed expansion. This will be achieved by expanding
the parking area north of Charles Street. Several properties have been acquired to facilitate this
‘expansion. A total of739 parking spaces willbe provided, including 198 public parking spaces, 32 short-

"

Page 20 of 43,

term parking spaces, 85 emergency short-term parking spaces, 4 service parking spaces and 420 staff
parking spaces. 14 barrier ree spaces are being provided

‘The parking lots provide an appropriate distribution of parking spaces by type at each ofthe faclty
entrances. Clear sight ines and non-circutous paths of travel promote ease of travel and wayfinging,
from the parking lotto each entrance. Accessible parking sas have been allocated at the entrances.

Landscaping and Amenity Space

The landscape desi proposed 's not only Intended to provide greenery and nice backdrop, but is
‘meant to function as an integral part of the healing process. The basic premise underiing the
conceptual frameworks that gardens postvely influence an individua’s effectiveness in coping with
‘sess and restoration, The intent i to assimilate the landscape ito the building infrastructure creating
a beneficial outdoor envionment that responds tothe special needs ofthe patients in specifi clinical
programs.

2

Sesscese.

5
e
le
fe.
ie.
le
ise

‘The objective isto maximize the landscaped areas for programmed and casual use versus 2 seres of
Inefficient left over spaces dificult to maintain. The following st identifies. the various
landscaped/amenity areas on-ste:

The north facing main entrance accommodates 2 landscaped courtyard that inks the new
building tothe exiting and provides seasonal interes

B

Page 21 of 43,

‘A secluded garden located adjacent to the staff entry provides an area fr breaks and informal
ining. Buffer panting wil provide privacy.

+The Level 1 secondary entrance off of Peal Steet & 2 welcoming amenity space with separate
vehicular and pedestrian acess. Iti enhanced by the preservation of existing trees situated
parallel to Pearl street.

‘+The Level 1 Acute Mental Health and Additions Garden has been designed to be an acessible,
restorative and safe environment. Its anticipated thatthe garden willbe used for casual and
organized use including siting, Socializing and a variety of stress reduction programs.

‘© The Level 2 inpatient Rehabilitation and Restorative Care roof garden is designed as 2
therapeutic rehabiltation tool which will host various soclol activites, contrbuting to the
process of healing.

‘+The Level 3 Complex Continuing Care and Pallative Care roof garden provides 2 herachy of
spaces, connected by 2 walking route offering choice, privacy and opportunities for family
Invohement. The garden is designed to promote as much independence as posible for
patients

‘A shaded pedestrian route with rest stops at regular intervals leads individual's through 2
sequence of outdoor rooms situated around the perimeter ofthe parking and building face. It
Is characterized by @ human scale envionment with appropriate ste furnishings and lighting
for safety, comfort, ease of culation and wayfinding,

Building Materials and Facade Treatment
The existing facilty& 9 collection of several bullding additions constructed over the last seventy years,
This mult-generational assemblage 1s primary characterized by a red brick exterior featuring a
secondary palette of limestone, granite, and architectural concrete details which reflect the evolving
architectural styles and technology of Brockuile General Hospitals significant fete. Together, they
‘embody 2 durable and long lasting but form for this important cv Institution

The proposed addtion will employ 2 principal palette of regionally-quaried limestone and hardy
concrete panels in varying colours and scales. The effect will both respec the refined and wellbui
character of the enlsting BGH campus and that of Brockile’s historic ele archtecture, while
‘exemplifying the contemporary and forward-thinking identity ofthe hospital self

"Most of the bung wil be faced in durable glas bre reinforced concrete panels. Their colouring will
be subtle, characterized by buff, greys, and terracotta at efferent scales, reflecting the materality and
palette of the exting BGH campus while maintaining 2 distinctly contemporary character. The
buling’s mass wil be broken down into smaller volumes marked by shifts in colour and size of concrete
panels to create a more amenable neighbourhood and human scale forthe campus.

4

Page 22 of 43,

Sustainability

‘The building envelope pars high performance rain screen detailing with an efficient thermaly-broken
cladding mounting system. Ths will ensure the envelope fulfils and exceeds its role in the building
‘system's approach to the OBC’ SB-10 supplementary standard and LEED Siver performance targets,
hile creating 2 comfortable interior environment for patients, vistors, and staff

Insulated glass in window and curtain wall assembles are used to moderate comfort levels in the
interior environment, while maximizing thermal performance of glazed openings. Glass coatings will
‘allow ight transmission and solar heat gain to be controlled and varied, alongside manual shading
devices, especially in more sensitive areas like patient bedrooms where the ambient environment is
‘most important. Localized ceramic applications in glazed areas desiring higher vsbilty and light levels
will provide passive solar shading where manual shading controls are not posible.

‘Sustainable elements are also integrated within the site's landscaping. The configuration of the staff
parking lot atthe north end of the site Features a significant landscaped area with storm water
‘management pond. This will help contribute to 2 reduction ofthe heat island effect and will aso serve
ts safe pedestrian corridor Inking to a revitalized jogging tall adjacent to the CN Ral property. In
addition, the use of drought tolerant plant materials and introduction of native species will result in
water efficiency on ite.

‘5. SUPPORTING STUDIES

‘Transportation Planning Study

‘A Transportation Planning Study, dated June 2013, was prepared by Stantec Consulting Ld. The purpose
ofthis study was to review the transportation planning aspects of the proposed hospital expansion
Including parking requirements, access arrangement, and on-site crulation. The study concluded that
‘the future parking demand based on the proposed expansion willbe 760 spaces

‘The recommendations ofthe study incl:

12) The emergency access should remain in its existing location and configuration,

1) With minor modifications to the existing site plan large heavy vehicles can be accommodated at
‘the proposed service acess area.

Pavement widening atthe Pearl Street and Bartholomew Steet intersection willbe required to
accommodate the W8-20 design vehicle (53 foot semiralr).

4) Gwen the City’s need to reconstruct Bartholomew Street, in partnership with the Gy, local
residents, school officias, utilities and other stakeholsers, develop 2 design for the
Bartholomew Street corridor between Per! Street and Charles Street which may implement
some ofthe mitigation measures presented to address the needs and concerns ofall valved

Page 23 of 43,

Page 24 of 43,

) Provide a raised contre island at the main entrance in order to better control trafic and
‘minimize calisions.

1 Widen the inbound lane ofthe turnaround circle atthe secondary entrance toa minimum of 3.5

8) Provide a layby adjacent to the orthopedics entrance and enforce and monitor the operation of
the layby to ensure that tis being used a intended

1h) At the Charles Street and Bartholomew Street intersection, provide a rightn/let-out access
controlled by signage and curbs

}) In discussion with Brockville Transit establish new or move exiting tans stops at the main
and/or secondary entrances to provide an on-site connection to public transit. if a portion af
Charles Street i transferred to the ownership of AGH effectively creating 2 dead-end public
road, provide 2 turnaround of suffitent size to accommodate the Cts snow removal
equipment

|) Monitor the on-ste parking demand and look to acquire new parking areas or implement TOM
‘measures asthe parking demand approaches capacty.

{ts expected that these considerations willbe addressed through Site Plan Control and in consultation
th iy staf.

‘Trafficlmpact Study
‘A Taffic impact Study, dated June 2013, was prepared by Stantec Consulting Ltd. The purpose ofthis
study was to assess the traffic impacts associted with the proposed hosptal expansion. The study
found that all study area intersections operate at good levels of service and within capacity for 2022
total traffic conditions.

Phase | Environmental Site Assessment.

‘A Phase | Environmental Site Assessment, dated March 27, 2015, was prepared by Pinchin
Environmental Based on the resuts of the Phase | ESA, the following could resut In potential
subsurface impacts a the site:

‘+ Arallay line, running in an east-west drection immediately north of the ste, was observed
since the 19505 in aerial photographs. Additionally,» branch ofthe ralway line appeared to be
situated onthe northeast portion ofthe stein the 1950s, 1963 and 1974 aerial photographs.
‘Creosote or chromate copper arsenate used to treat the ralway tes have the potential to
Jimpact sis inthe vicinity of ray nes;

‘+ 156 Bartholomew Street (Site Building A) has been occupied by an automotive repak/serving
facility from at leat the 1970s until 2007. Petroleum hyérocarbon staining was present on the
concrete floor and tis bulding s equipped with an ollwater separator. The condition of the
sol/water separator could not be asessed atthe time of site reconnaissance, as It was filed
with oly water and sladge. In adation, 1112068 Ontario Limited, 2 janitorial service lasted
Within Site Building A, had been registered with the Ontario Ministry of Environment and

16

Page 25 of 43,

imate Change (MOECC) as a generator of various hazardous wastes including aromatic
solvents, and olskimmings and sludges from 2002 untl 2011; and,

‘+ 156A Bartholomew Street (Ste Building 8) has been occupied by an automatic repait/servicing
faciity from at least the 1970s unt present. Petroleum hydrocarbon staining was present on
‘the concrete floor, which was observed to have several lage cracks. In adtion, ths building is
‘equipped with an in-loor trench, Contents of the inflor trench are pumped tothe ground at
‘the northwest comer ofthe Site Building exterior.

Based onthe findings noted above, Pinchin recommends completing Phase i €SAat the Site

Phase 2 Environmental Ste Assessment

‘APhase 2 Environmental Ste Assessment, dated March 29, 2015, was prepared by Pinchin
Environmental. The purpose ofthe assessment was to address potential sues of environmental
‘concern 25 part ofthe due dilgence requirements issued by Infastructure Ontario, in relation to the
redevelopment ofthe Site. A Phase 2 assessment was ao undertaken based onthe resus of the
Phase 1ESA,

‘The findings ofthe Phase 2 Assessment identified PAH impacted sol within the icity of MW-1
(northeast corner ofthe ste near the intersection of Bartholomew Street and the CN filing). As such,
Its Pinchin’s recommendation that upon the redevelopment ofthe Site thatthe sol within the vicinity
‘of MW-1 be managed and disposed ofa a certified waste handling facity. No further investigations

‘warranted at this time.

6. POLICY AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK.

Provincial Policy Statement

‘The 2014 Provincial Policy Statement (PPS) provides high-level land use policy direction to be
implemented through the actions of municipalities. Decisions of municipal councils must be consistent
‘wth the PPS which provides direction for sues such athe efficient use of Ind and infrastructure, the
protection of natural and cultural heritage resources, maintaining a housing stock that appropriately
‘addresses the demographic and economic diversity of households, and preserving natural resource
stocks for thei future us. I relation to the development of the Subject ste, the PPS incides the
following considerations:

‘+ Healthy, veable and safe communities are sustained by.-promating cost effective development
patterns and standards to minimize lan consumption and servicing costs (Section 1.1.1);

‘Public service faites shoul be co-located in community hubs, where appropiate, to promote
costeectveness and facilitate service integration, acces to transit and ative transportation
(ection 165};

‘Sites with contaminants in land or water shall be assessed and remediate 2s necessary prior to
any activity on the site assocated with the proposed use such that there wil be no adverse
fects (Section 3.22).

7

Page 26 of 43,

For several years, BGH has been acquiring adjacent properties in anticipation ofa future expansion, This
approach will help promote a cost effecte development pattern in order to minimize tand
consumption and servicing costs, as the hospital expansion will occur within the established street
network and on existing municipal services.

‘The expansion will also occur within an established, well-connected, transt-serviced neighbourhood,
hich wi help facilitate service integration and acces to active forms of transportation. ght industrial
acts have occured in the northeast corner ofthe ste. The lands wil be remediat

based on the recommendations of the Phase Il Environmental Site Assessment.

‘The proposed hospital expansion is consistent withthe polcy direction of the 2014 Provincial Policy
‘Statement.

ity of Brockville Official Plan

‘The subject ste i designated Instutional Area on Schedule 3 - City Structure ofthe Official Plan. In
addition tothe specific policies related to this designation, the Official Plan Includes goals and objectives
‘that apply nal areas ofthe Cy.

‘Section 2.3~ Planning Goss & Objectives

Section 2.3 of the Official Plan sets out the City’s goals and objectives, which are based upon four major
themes: A sustainable, healthy and vtal cy; an economically strong and dverse cy; a high quality of
City services and amenities; and a welkplanned and responsive Cty. The proposed hospital expansion is
consistent with these goals and objectives.

Section 23.1. seks to conserve and enhance the natural environment while ako promoting » heathy
and safe community. According to Schedule 3, the subject site does not contain any natural heritage
{features that would requve protection. The subject site ls nat located within or adjacent to flood
hazards and i s not within the screening area forthe Cataraqul Region Conservation Authorty. A
‘numberof sustainable features have been integrated into the site design and landscaping which were
previous discussed.

‘The hospital expansion wil aso assis in reinforcing Brockvle' trong sense of community through the
provision of public services and through development that promotes healthy, active living. The
proposed expansion will allow forthe integration of many of BGH's heath serces ina location that
‘centrally located and accessible via active and sustainable forms of transportation. The proposal assists
with directing new urban development tothe bul up area, which will ensure 2 compact form and
appropriate mix of uses, which in turn will result in a more efficient use of land and infrastructure.

18

Section 2.3.2. aims to promote 2 flexible and adaptive economical environment that encourages
investment and abroad range of employment opportunities, and supports the growth of tourism inthe
‘Gy Its antcpated that ontop of staff transfers, new jobs are expected to be created asa result of the
‘expansion and associated increase in patient beds

Section 23.3 seeks to protect the vealty and growth of the employment sectors, and revitalize the
Downtown and Central Waterfront Ares, wile recognizing retail trends and community needs.
Brochvile General Hospital is one of Leeds Grenvil’s top employers, providing over 800 jobs in the
‘community and rehying on the additional support of approximately 140 physicians and over 300
volunteers. The proposed expansion which wil bring many ofthe hospitals health services under one
‘oof, will allow the BGH tobe more efficient and funcional for its users and employees. The subject ste
isin close proximity othe Downtown and Central Waterfront Area, making Wt easy fr users, viskors and
Staff ofthe hospital to patronize downtown businesses and services,

Section 23.4 promotes the development of education and skils advancement systems and facies,
‘The proposed addition wil asi AGH with achieving one oft core values, which isto provide flexibly
for new and expanded clinical services, technology and education, One way this will be achieved i
‘through the provision of addtional education and meeting facites. This new component will support
the learning and conference requirements of the hospital,

Section 4~ Developing our Thriving City Structure

The subject ste is designated institutional Area on Schedule 1 — Cy Structre of the Official Plan The
Official Plan recognizes the important contribution of the City’s Insitutions and that their role in
community-based initiatives is significant in the City of Brockville. Subject to the Land Use and Butt
Foe polis, a hospitals a permitted use in the Insttutional Area. Furthermore, fs the policy ofthe
Cy that:

41 Development proposed inthe Instutional Area shall be consistent with the y's Downtown ond
\Woterront Master Plan and Urban Design Guidelines, where applicable, in addition to the urbon
design polices of his Pin,

‘While srokvile General Hospitals located within the Institutional Area designation (Schedule 1
‘ofthe OF), is located outside ofthe Downtown and Waterfront Master Plan area (Figure 9). t
's understood that institutional areas subject to the Downtown and Waterfront area design
guidelines include the Court House and Court House Green, Jal and Places of Worship.
‘Therefore, the Downtown and Waterfront Master Plan and Urban Design Guidelines are not
spplicable tothe subject se.

19

Page 27 of 43,

‘The Official Plan contains city-wide Urban Design guidelines, which can be found in Section
34.1, These guidelines are Intended to create a physical environment where individuals have
‘the appropriate places to interact, Ive, work, recreate and lear. It the pole of the Section
‘3.4.1 that through the review of development applications, the Cy

1

‘Shall ensure that new development is designed in keeping withthe traditional character
of the City na manner that both preserves their traditional community imoge ond
enhances ther sense of place within the City:

‘The proposed addition wil employ a principal palette of regonall-quarried lmestone
‘and hardy concrete panels in varying colours and scales which will both respect the
refined and wel-bult character ofthe existing BGH campus and that of Brockvlle’s
Iistorc civic architecture, while exemplifying the contemporary and forward-thinking
‘dentity ofthe hospitals

‘Shall promote efficient and cost-effective development design patterns that minimize
land consumption white providing for sfe and efficent municipal services;

‘The design of the proposed addition seeks to minimize the bulding footprint and
‘maximize future growth opportunities. The existing hospital facity is located in the
southwest comer ofthe hospital site. Due to proximity ofthe Bounding streets the only
‘option for large-scale expansion is to the east. The proposed expansion has been

Page 28 of 43,

Page 29 of 43,

‘carefully located in the south east quadrant of the site to allow for maximum future
‘growth and expansion.

‘i Shall promote the improvement of the physical character, oppecrence and safety of,
‘streetscapes, eve spaces, ond parks;

‘The new building aims to te together the varied scales of the hosptals existing
‘bulldings through its massing. The differences between the older parts ofthe hospital
and the newer ones (2003 and the proposed addition) are bridged with human scaled
devices such as the extended east-west multhievel public gathering space and the
system of courtyards and accessible terraces, to create a harmonious renewed image of
the Brockvile General Hospital,

Sho encourage tree retention or tree planting and replacement

‘The existing Brock site enjoys small planted areas with a midure of newer and
mature tees. The southeast and northeast corners of the site have more densely
planted areas lncluding low shrubs, coniferous trees and lawn, The intent of the
redevelopment to maintain the exiting patterns of site landscaping as much as
possible, while enhancing pubic spaces through the incorporation of new plantings.

Sail encourage design that considers, and wherever possible continues, exiting ond
tradition stret patterns and neighbourhood structure:

The easing street pattern Is generaly being maintained. While Charles Street Is
‘ropoied to be closed at 2 municipal right-of way  willstil fonction asa vehicular and
pedestrian route, thus mainiaining 2 connection between Ormond and Bartholomew
street.

Wi. Moy require, ot the City’s sole discretion thot proponents submit design guidelines with
development applications establishing how the polices ofthis Plan have been considered
‘ond addressed. Such guidelines may also be required to address reoted issues of
residential streetscoping, londscoping. setbacks, signage, garage placement, ond
‘architectural reotment

This planning rational provides an in-depth dscusion on design considerations related
to the proposed hospital expansion. Its expected that isues related to streetscaping,
landscaping signage and architectural treatment can be further addressed through ste
plan contro.

Furthermore, the Official Plan states that any development propoted greater than thee storeys
but less than oF equal to five storeys shall only be permitted subject to 2 ske-specic

amendment to the Zoning By-iaw and satisfying the following criteria to ensure the building
height is compatibe with neighbouring land uses and thatthe development provides a suitable
‘transition with adjacent stable residential neighbourhoods:

‘Signature Architecture ~ Signature architecture sholl be required to ensureo high level of
‘orchitectual treatment ond design. Signature architecture may consist of screening or
appropriate design of roof mounted equipment, enhanced building articulation through
the wie of distinguishable architectural elements, including cornices ond mouldings,
‘materials, and colours consistent with the prominent architecture within the immediate

_As noted previous, the proposed addition wil employ 2 principal palette of reglonally:
quarried limestone and hardy concrete panels in varying colours and scales which will
both respect the refined and well built characte of the exiting BGH campus and that of
Brockvile’s historic civic architecture, while exemplifying. the contemporary and
forward-thinking identay ofthe hospital ise

‘Mocha limestone from Madoc, Ontario wil form the ste and architectural wall which
adually steps the topography down from Peart to Charles Street, and defines the
faciity’s main lobby and circulation spine. A gesture to both the region's natural
landscape and building traditions, this stone represents permanence and tradition,

‘Most of the building wil be faced in durable gas ibe reinforced concrete panels. The
subtle colouring of bulls, greys, and terracotta at diferent scale reflects the materiality
and palette of the existing BGH campus while maintaining 2 distinctly contemporary
character. The bulldig’s mass wil be broken down into smaller volumes marked by
Shifts in eolour and sizeof concrete panels to create a more amenable neighbourhood
and human scale forthe campus. Canopies in zing glass, and steel provide a sculptural
fourth to mark entrances and create a pleasing roofscape when viewed from patent’
‘bedrooms above.

Angular Plone ~ A 45 degree angulor plane shall be used to regulote the height of tol
bulléings and ensure they ore stepped bock from the treet to ensure an appropriate
‘pedestrian scale and from stable residential lots to ensure there are no adverse mpocts
‘on the adjacent neighbourhood.

The addition has been designed to meet the angular plane requirement on bath Peat
and Bartholomew Streets. The project architect has confirmed that the south angular
plane does not extend beyond the centreine of Peal Stret and that the east angular
plane does not extend beyond the subject site's property line abutting Bartholomew
street

2

Page 30 of 43,

2. Where an existing use in an instittionol Area ceases, the Cty may consider the redesignation of
the sit t.an appropriate olternatve designation only after exominaton.

‘This policy not applicable 2 this amendment secs to expand an exiting instittional ute.

3. Specific development standards for permitted uses ond ancilry uses shall be included in the
Zoning Bow.

[A dlscussion onthe applicable zoning is discussed later inthis report.

4 Any proposal to odd or enlrge an instittiono! Area shal be evaluated on the boss of:
|. the impact anand the compatibility with the uses surrounding the proposed ste; and
the adequacy of socio! and physicol services, including roads to accommodate the

proposed use.

‘The proposed hospital ation has been designed to provide a suitable scale and massing in
relation to the existing bul fabri. Building massing and rhythm complement the existing
structure so thatthe campus reads as 2 singular facility and presence on the street. This is
achieved by maintaining the existing bulding height and by providing 2 setback from Peart
‘Stretthat s consistent with the setback ofthe existing hospital complex,

‘The east portion ofthe addon wil be further setback from Peat Street in order to break up
the streetwall and reduce the perceived mass of the structure from the street. A significant
setback is provided along Bartholomew Stree, helping to mitigate impacts on this local road's
streetscape. New landscaping coupled with exiting, mature vegetation will enhance the
physical separation between the addition and adjacent uses.

The addition wil also continue the established built form found along the north side of Peal
Street, which is characterized by various larger scale institutiona/commercal uses, such as
Brockville Collegiate institute, Commonwealth Public School an the former Abbott Laboratories
plant

‘The proposed expansion will contribute to and complement existing social services that are
_avalable within Srockille. There is ako sufficient physical infrastructure to accommodate the
‘development. The subject lands are bound by two collector roads (Pear St. € and Ormond
‘Street which can adequately accommodate increases in vaffie generated by the development.
‘A Transportation Impact Study was prepared which assessed the Impacts of the hosptal
‘expansion. The results indicate that for post-development, al study area intersections will
‘operate at good levels of service and within capacity for 2022 total trafic conditions

23

Page 31 of 43,

Page 32 of 43,

5. Adequate onsite parking areas shal be provided in accordance withthe provision ofthe Zoning
‘8y-law, and acess to parking areosshll be Imited ad designed to provide maximum safety for
pedestrian ond vehiculr woffe

‘The Zoning By-law requires the provision of 0. parking spaces per bed. With a total of 167 beds
(74 exstng and 93 proposed), the required parking on site is 84 spaces. The proposed site plan
significantly exceeds this requirement, by providing 739 parking spaces, Clear sight lines and
rnon-ircuitous paths of travel are provided to promote ease of travel and wayfinding from the
parking lot to each entrance. Accessible parking stalls have been allocated atthe entrances.

6, Institutional Areo uses shal be located where there direct acess to an Arterial or Collector
rd to discourage traf from using lect roads.

The subject lands are bound by Ormond Stret to the west and Pearl Street to the south. These
are both collector roads. The majority of the ste's vehicular entrances are provided from these
streets.

7. The profile ofthe development shll relate tothe adjacent buildings and uses and result in @
‘gradual ronson in terms ofthe profile of buldings, where applicable and eppropriate

The height ofthe proposed addition is consistent with the height of the existing hospital facilty.
[At four storeys (plus penthouse), the building height will provide @ sutable transition to
adjacent uses which ae typically 2-3 storeys im height. The area proposed for development is
bordered by institutional uses, including the ensting hosptal and a school

The site shal be designed tobe accessible to ll Indus within the community, including the
‘elder and those individuals with physico isbilies.

The proposed expansion will meet OBC requirement for accesiity,

9. Appropriate landscaping and buffers shall be provided to enhance the physcol separation
‘between the use and adjacent senstve uses, where opplicoble and appropri.

‘extensive landscaping provided south of the new addition which will buffer adjacent
‘residential and commercial uses. Landscaping will aso be provided throughout the parking area
‘in order to add softness and interest and alo to diminish the appearance of parking from the

Based on ths review, it our opinion that the proposed hospital expansion is consistent withthe
{general intent of the Official Plan.

24

Page 38 of 43,

7. EXISTING AND PROPOSED ZONING

Gty of Brocille Comprehensive Zoning By-law
‘The subject lands are zoned 1, Rand E3-1in the City of Brock Zoning By tw No. 0502018 (Figure
10)

AT = (Se)

‘Figure 10 Curent Zoning

For the purposes of roning, Ormond Street is considered the front yard, Pea! Street is considered the
‘exterior side yard, Bartholomew Street i considered thereat yard and the property line abutting the CN
raltine and the Professional Arts building are considered interior side yards. However, because this is a
comer property, the front yard requirements apply tothe Pearland Bartholomew Street frontages in
adation tothe Ormond Stret frontage. The following reliefs are being requested forthe proposed ste
specifi zone:

Page 34 of 43,

(front yard) in that
zone from the original
centre ine of the
Improved publ street
ROW = 16 metres
from ceetreline

‘Minimum Lot Frontage | 18.0m 186.0m ca
‘Minimum Lot Are 950.0 17385 ca
Minimum Front Yard | 6.0m “477 m (existing) Relief Required
‘Minimum Extenior Side | N/A Wa WA
Yard
‘Minimum Interior de | 43m 354m (existing) 7
Yard
‘Minimum Rear Yard | N/A wa WR
‘Winimom landscaped — | 20% 30% 7
Open Space
‘Maximum Lot Coverage | Norequirement | 23296 WR
‘Maximam Building 305m 37m 7
Height
Parking OSspaces/bed= 84 [739 7
Barrier Free Parking Tspace per 50 Te spaces v

required parking

spaces =2

Width © 3.5 m Width = 3.9 m 4
Bicycle Parking ‘TO space 71,000 m™of | > 41 spaces 7

GFA 41 spaces

(40.731 m? GFA)
‘Yard Requirements for | Wthe ROW width is | 109 metres trom Reliefrequired
‘Ormond Street less than 20.0 m, then | centreline to west

notwithstanding the | tower canopy

‘yard requirements, no

building or structure

shall be erected closer

than a distance equal

tothe sum of 10.0

‘metres, and the

required setback

26

Page 35 of 43,

‘Appropriateness of Requested Zoning By-law Amendment

‘The primary purpose of the zoning by-w amendment is to provide consistent zoning for the
consolidated hospital property. Portions of the recently acquired hospital lands are currently zoned 3,
and E3-1. The proposed rezoning would bring these properties into the proposed site-specific It zone.

‘The relet required infront yard setback &s needed to recognize the location of the exiting hosptal
relative tothe newly defined yards. The front yard was previously measured from the Charles Street
‘frontage. However, Ormond Street will become the new front yard when Charles Street i closed, a it
wal have the shortest road frontage. The existing hospital facity& located 48 metres from the
Ormond Street lot ine, which is 1.2 metres shy ofthe requcement. Rel wil lo be required forthe
(Ormond Stret special yard requirement.

8, ConcLusion

tis our opinion that the requested Zoning By-law Amendment represents good planing is appropriate
forthe subject property and isin the public interest forthe folowing reasons:

‘+The proposal is consistent with the Provincial Policy Statement with respect to the
Intensification ofa serviced ste located within the urban area;

‘+The design employs signature architecture to ensure a high level of architectural treatment and
esign:

‘+ The development has been designed to provide a suitable scale and massing in relation to the
‘existing bul fabric;

‘+The design reinforces the importance of the landscape as a priorty with an emphasis on
pedestrian circulation and sustainable environmental solutions; and,

‘+The expansion will occur within an established, well<onnecte, transl-serveed neighbourhood,
which wil help facitate service integration and access to active forms of transportation.

In summary, the proposed Zoning By1aw Amendment to permit the expansion ofthe Brochvile General
Hospital, inchding 2 new wing and expanded parking area, will result in an addition to the
neighbourhood that is compatible with surounding uses, is sympathetic to the scale of adjacent
structures and represents appropriate infil development within the urban area,

‘Should you require any additional information, please do not hesitate to contact me at 613.542.5854
ont 222

ser, etevedy
fame Mak Wo fs
Jenner Garo at Mie Kene, MCP RP
Planner Senor aner

27

Page 36 of 43,

‘revo. Concerrom Sie PLN


Page 37 of 43,

‘ApPENDIX B - PROPOSED ZONE SCHEDULE

Fy)

Page 38 of 43,

‘ApPENDIx C—- PROPOSED ZONING

‘The zone provsions forthe I-X Zone shall bea flows:
(FRONT YARD (minimum) 47 metres

(i No structure shall be any closer to the Ormond Street centreline than 10'5 metres

30

Page 39 of 43,

Greenberg & Levine tip

Barristers & Solicitors 2223 Kennedy Road
‘Scarborough, Ontario MIT3GS

Murray Levine, B.A, LL.B. Telephone (416) 292-6500

Harry Greenberg, B.A., LL.B. Fax (416) 292-6559
June 19, 2015

Email to: planning@ibrockville.com

Director of Planning,
City Hall

1 King Street West
PO Box 5000
Brockville, Ontario
K6v 75

Dear Sirs

RE: Zoning Charges ~ Charles St, Bartholomew St. & Pearl St. E., Brockville
City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-201

We are the lawyers for 182562 Ontario Inc. the owner of 135 Ormond Street who has received
notification of the proposed zoning by-law amendments.

‘Our client's building is used as a medical center. Although his building is not affected directly he has a
‘number of concems as follows:

1 :The proximity ofthe electrical station may be a problem due to possible electrical discharges affecting,
the medical building. The station should be removed toa further site.

2.Charles Street should not be closed until past our client's building as there is @ handicapped walkway
from the building onto Charles Stret. Furthermore deliveries to the building are made through Charles
Street

Pease make these concerns known to the proper department.

At this time our client i uncertain whether he will be able to attend the public meeting on July 7, 2015.

Yours truly
Greenberg & Levine

Harry Greenberg,
ee. 1825624 Ontario Inc.

Page 40 of 43,

@ 2)
Lorraine Bagnell

From: Helene Fleischer <Helene Fescher@en.ca>
Sent: June 15, 2035 1:19 PM

To: Lorraine Bagnell

Subject: FW: Notice of Public Meeting respecting an Applicaton for Zoning By-law Amendment

for the Brockville General Hospital, Brockille, ON,

Good afternoon Lorraine,
‘Thankyou for circulating CN on this proposed project.

Due tothe proposa's proximity tothe Kingston West mainline, CN anticipates the opportunity to review a nose study,
as the land use in this case is considered to be sensitive.

In terms of the additional parking space, CN has concerns af fencing. drainage, and access onthe site Thisisin reference
10: the provision of 1.83 meter chainlink security fencing, avoidance of adverse impacts to the existing drainage pattern
Con the railway right-of-way and a 30 meter setback of access points to avoid the potential for impact to trafic safety
when located near at-grade ealway crossings

Regards,

Helene Flescher-CN
Planifcation et développement communautares
Community Planning & Development

helene feicher@cn.ca

514-399-7211

From: Lorraine Bagnel {mai
‘Sent: Thursday, June 11, 2015 3:31 PM

joan mays@heathunt.ors;
‘Subject: Notce of Puble Meeting respecting an Applicaton for Zoning By-aw Amendment for the Brockville General
Hospital, Brodie, ON.

An application for Zoning By-law Amendment has been received by the City of Brockville with respect
toa proposed expansion for the Brockvile General Hospital

For your information and review, enclosed is a copy of the Notice of Public Meeting and sketch of the
proposed expansion.

Page 41 of 43,

Lorraine Bagnell

From: onal Cosgrove
Sent: June 23,2015 400 PM

To: Maureen Pascoe Merkley

fe Lorraine Bagael: Sandra MacDonal; Peter Raabe; Steve Allen
Subject: Proposed Zoning By-Law Amendment - Brockvile General Hospital
Maureen

‘The Operations Department has the following comments with respect to this application:

1. The Transportation Planning Study projects @ demand for 760 parking spaces for staff and visitors. The current
version ofthe site plan shows 739 parking spaces. tis recommended that 760 parking spaces be provided to
‘minimize the impact of on-street parking inthe surrounding residential area.

2, The City, Brockville General Hospital, and Upper Canada District Schoo! Board should meet to review the
Transportation Planning Study recommendations related to the proposed service entrance on Bartholomew
Street and agree on am implementation plan prior tothe approval of the Site Plan.

3, Itis unclear from the current version ofthe ste plan whether Charles Steet i intended to remain asa public
street, of become an internal roadway forthe hospital ste. Based on the current configuration, the Operations
Department prefers thatthe Charles Street road allowance be transferred tothe hospital n order to avold
‘maintenance concerns, particulary with respect to winter maintenance,

onal

Page 42 of 43,

CENBRIDGE sone

June 26, 2015

Lorraine Bagnel!
Administrative Coordinator-Planning
City of Brockvile

Planning Department

‘One King Street West PO Box 5000
Brockville, ON KBV 7A5

Dear Lorraine Bagnell,

Re: Zoning By-law Amendment
Brockville General Hospital
70, 75, 80, 94,100 and 108 Charles Steet
94, 100, 118, 126, 134, 150, 152, 156 and 156A Bartholomew Street
150 and 156 Pearl Street East
City of Brockvile
File No,: 014-007

Enbridge Gas Distibution does not object tothe proposed application(s).
‘This response does not constitute a pipe locate or clearance for construction,

‘The applicant shall contact Enbridge Gas Distribution’s Customer Connections department by
‘emailing SalesArea60@enbridae.com for service and meter installation detalls and to ensure all
{985 piping is installed prior to the commencement of site landscaping (including, but not limited
{o: tree planting, siva cells, and /or soll trenches) and/or asphalt paving.

If the gas main needs to be relocated as a result of changes in the alignment or grade of the
future road allowances or for temporary gas pipe installations pertaining to phase construction,
all costs are the responsibilty of the applicant.

‘The applicant wil contact Enbridge Gas Distribution's Customers Connections department by
‘emailing SatesArea60@enbridae.com prior to ny site construction activities to determine if
existing piping facilites need tobe relocated or abandoned.

Page 43 of 43,

Enbridge Gas Distribution reserves the right to amend or remove development conditions.

Sincerely,

Nikki DeGroot
5 Pein Aer

Ditreon Porn & Recs

ENBRIDGE GAs orSTRIBUTION

etree

{oa Consumers oad Noro Onto M2416

‘etogonscan

Integety. Sey Respect

Now

