Page

12-16

Page 1 of 65

Economic Development and

Plan
Tuesday, February 7, 2017,

1g Committee
Spm

City Hall, Council Chambers

Committee Members
Councillor D. LeSueur,

Areas of Responsibility
Economic Development

Economic Development

Chair Planning Advisory Team.
Councillor J. Baker Chamber of Commerce Museum Board
Councilor J. Earle DBIA brary Board
Councillor M. Kalivas Heritage Brockville Arts Centre
Mayor D. Henderson, Tourism
Ex-Officio

COMMITTEE AGENDA

Disclosure of Interest

Delegations and Presentations

‘Age Friendly Brockville

(Dawn Edgley, Project Lead)

Ms, Edgley will speak to the Committee regarding the Age Friendly

Brockville project.

Economic Development Project Summaries and Briefing

(David Paul, Director of Economic Development)

David will provide an update on the following projects:

Industrial Employment Annual Report
Brockville - Morristown New York Passenger Ferry Initiative
UNESCO EuroMab Initiative

Regional Economic Corridor Initiative
Grants Update

Rebranding alignment on Enterprise Centre and Immigration

Centre to Regional Corridor
© Rails to Trails Festival

Page 2 of 65

Economic Development and Planning Committee
February 7, 2017

Correspondence
Nil.

Staff Reports

17-55 2017-04-01

Unesco Euromab International Centre

THAT EDP recommend to Council the approval for the City’s Finance
Department to issue tax receipts on donations towards the various
work phases and business plan development cost to establish a
UNESCO EuroMAB international centre in Brockville; and further,

THAT assistance be provided to the project's Canadian
representatives through the guidance of EDAT on local planning,
advocacy and economic matters associated with the project
implementation and preparation of a formal prospectus.

56 - 60 2017-09-02

‘Age Friendly Brockville Update

THAT Council authorize the staff to apply for grants, specifically the
Seniors Community Grant (SCG) program, the Age Friendly
Community Planning Grant (AFCPG) and others as they become
available, to allow the continuance of the pursuit of the City’s Age
Friendly designation.

THAT the Age Friendly Project Lead continue in an Advisory role on
a volunteer basis until such time a grant is available;

And that the Economic Development department 2017 Work Plan
allow for staff time to assist the Project Lead in securing the Age
Friendly designation.

New Business - Reports from Members of Council

61-65

Establishment of a Water Advisory Committee
(Councillor Baker)

THAT the Committee support the establishment of a Water Advisory
Committee with the Terms of Reference to be developed.

Page 8 of 65

Economic Development and Planning Committee
February 7, 2017

Consent Agenda
Motion to Move into Closed Session

THAT pursuant to Municipal Act, 2001, Section 239, Sub. 2, (c), the
Committee resolve itself into Closed Session to consider:

1. a proposed or pending acquisition or disposition of land by the
‘municipality or local board;

Report of the Committee from Closed Session
THAT the EDP Committee rise from Closed Session without reporting.
Adjournment

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee adjourned
its meeting until the next regular meeting scheduled for March 7, 2017.

2/3/2017
Page 4 of 65

a Age Friendly
B Brockville

Making our Community the Best Place
to Grow Up and Grow Older

Powe
ose

‘Age Friendly
B Brockville

2015 - 2016 Steering Committee


2/3/2017

Page 5 of 65

‘Age Friendly
Brockville” The Importance of

The Asoction of Mukpaies Ona (AMO) Sucre ig ny ammnies n Senrs Srvies

lng ot revs AO paper (2008 2n¢201} he 20 ple paper utr he Alpaca he mca

AMO sree anm nnte Sc ta t ee
fbr reo
eng Geet sats Coma oe gi md i es pecans

‘Age Friendly
Brockville

The Importance of Age Friendly
‘Communi

ania or Ag ay Commons
ane

“tanner canoot fed tbe tate by suite, Planer ned to kee caning the horn aed hein to putin pce


2/3/2017
Page 6 of 65

e Friendh
B Beenie”

‘The Importance of Age Friendly

‘ria! wth the poaltion, they are
reaungy expeted to esloy an age

‘AgeFriendly Communities in indo ply Sng tan ig
Ontario: Muli-Level Governance, | icy pang odteSevtop apy or
ination Challenges reeareh

and Poly Inpcatons
Je Friendh
B Beckie” ‘wurnagefriendlyontario.ca


2/3/2017
Page 7 of 65

‘Age Friendly
Brockville

8

HOW COMMUNITIES ARE BECOMING MORE AGE-FRIENDLY

=] ‘Age-Friendly Community Dimensions Study

“ay Vay, Towns of

Age Friendly
Brockville

3S

‘Achievement Highlights
2015-2016

nding $35,000,
+ Age ena Website wu atbroeiecom

1 Member of nao F Network wntasiaota ce
+ Demopaphic  segrphe profile

New arin strategies


2/3/2017
Page 8 of 65

Age Friendly
Brockville

BS
Bs:

——-

non

COMMITMENT 2017

[AGE FRIENDLY BROCKVILLE ACTION PLAN.

AFFORDABLE
ATTAINABLE

MEANINGFUL

MEASURABLE

Age Friendl
Brockville y

&

AFFORDABLE

{AF Planning Grant
Seniors Community Grant

‘Other grants including: New Horizons,
illum ect.

Fundraising events

Donations

Eliminate duplicated efforts

Leverage existing initiatives

‘Share resources and knowledge where
there isa lack of funding


2/3/2017
Page 9 of 65

Age Friendly

3 Brockville

ATTAINABLE

‘Action Plan:

A series of recommendations based on the 8
elements that the WHO has determined
define an AFC

+ What can we accomplish today?
+ What are the priorities for local seniors?
+ What are the priorities included in the citys

strategic planning . What are the long term.
goals?

+ AP Recommendations: 1-5 Year

implementation period

Age Friendly

3 Brockville

+ Community Driven
+ Engages Older Adults
*+ Compliments the core values of our

MEANINGFUL -

community
Promotes partnerships

+ Benefits all members of the community

regardless of age or ability

+ Priorities the wants and needs of older

adults

+ Makes our community one of the best

places in Ontario to grow up and grow
older


2/3/2017
Page 10 of 65

@ Age Friendly
i] Brockville
AGE-FRIENDLY COMMUNITIES,
EVALUATION GUIDE

USING INDICATORS TO MEASURE PROGRESS

MEASURABLE

rrvntiontn cute an 2g ny enonment

shormeumtum changes selevedn rerig a AF nvm
ote socal ie toward sig nd leas


2/3/2017
age 11 of 65

ay Age Friendly
® Brockville


PaapodFeh9>

BRIEFING ON CORPORATE CALLS
AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT STATUS.

+ Brockville-Morristown Passenger Ferry Service

+ UNESCO EuroMAB.

+ Regional Corridor Economic Development


+ Industrial Employment Report

Brocklle Manufacturing Employee Numbers 2006 - 2016

+ Industrial Employment Report

2016 Labour Changes oft Companies)

Paapod7ehis>

Peapobye9

+ Economic Development Directions Report
‘4 Where Does Brockville Need To Go?

+ Economic Development Directions Report


+ Economic Development Directions Report

* Grants Approved

+ Rails to Trails

+ Brockville Arts Centre
+ 2019 Tall Ships

* Marina Grant Status

Paapodpehis>

Employment Lands

Age Friendly

LCV Capacity

National Magazine Promotional Editorial

Features

Paapdp2ehis>

Page 17 of 65

January 13, 2017

REPORT TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING ~ TUESDAY FEBRUARY 7, 2017

2017-004-01 DAVID C. PAUL
UNESCO EUROMAB INTERNATIONAL CENTRE DIRECTOR OF ECONOMIC

DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM
RECOMMENDATION

THAT EDP recommend to Council the approval for the City’s Finance Department to issue
tax receipts on donations towards the various work phases and business plan development
cost to establish a UNESCO EuroMAB intemational centre in Brockville; and further,

THAT assistance be provided to the project's Canadian representatives through the
guidance of EDAT on local planning, advocacy and economic matters associated with the
project implementation and preparation of a formal prospectus.

PURPOSE

To continue the UNESCO EuroMAB project initiated in October of 2013 in Brockville on the
establishment of the first ever International Centre for Sustainable Rural Communities, and
as such, Securing the coveted UNESCO designation for the City of Brockville.

BACKGROUND

‘+ The ICSRC project was launched in Brockville at the UNESCO EuroMAB conference
in October 2013 by the Canadian Biosphere Reserves, Queens University and the
‘Aquatarium acting as project proponents.

‘+ The conference was attended by 150 delegates from 52 countries who approved the
formation of an International Working Group and charging it with the task of preparing
a Project Prospectus for EuroMAB approval
‘+The goal isto prepare the formal prospectus for approval for April 2017
‘+ The funding required for completing this task has been secured in part and the tax
receipt status will assist the committee in finalizing pending private sector donations
‘and foundation grants to complete this phase of the project
+ No city funds are being requested at this stage of the project
ANALYSIS.
‘+ To secure an international centre of the caliber and status noted herein would be a

significant achievement and impact positively on marketing and branding for the City
of Brockville

Page 18 of 65

2017-004.01
UNESCO EUROMAB INTERNATIONAL CENTRE Page 2

‘+ The international delegations traveling to our community to utlze the centre would
factor on our foreign tourism attraction and potential future investment in tourism
product

‘+ The UNESCO brand is highly desirable based on the feedback from Parks Canada,
‘The Ontario Ministry of Tourism Sports and Culture, the City of Kingston and the St,
Lawrence Parks Commission, all who have utlzed in their own marketing
programming

‘+ There is no financial request for the City of Brockville on operational or capital
contributions

‘+ Further benefits and descriptions for the centre are noted in Appendix A
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATION
‘No direct financial exposure for either operations or capital to the City of Brockville
CONCLUSION
‘A positive business plan supporting the establishment of the subject centre would provide
benefits to the City of Brockville on a major scale and compliment the operation of the
‘Aquatarium,

‘The fresh water research element to the centre mandate addresses the recommendation of
the refreshed Economic Development Strategic Report (Appendix B; Sec.4.1, page 17)

D. Dick CA
Director of Corporate Services.

2 ——_——

B. Cagselman
City Manager

Page 19 of 65

Appendix A

International Centre for Sustainable Rural Commu

AUNESCO EuroMAB Initiative
To: City of Brockville Council

Proposal: That the Brockville City Council form a committee to alow the
International Centre for Sustainable Rural Communities Project to receive
donations and issue tax receipts for donations through the City of Brockville
Finance Department

Introduction

‘The International Centre for Sustainable Rural Communities (ICSRC) willbe located in
Broclaville It will be the first of ts kind in the world, itis anticipated that it will be a not-
for-profit with charitable status, and that it wil receive UNESCO designation Its overall
mission, vision and objectives areas follows:

Mission
‘We will inspire creative, innovative, and effective ways for people and nature to thrive
together in rural communities. By linking Indigenous and traditional knowledge from rural
‘communities with modern science, we will generate solutions to pressing local, regional,
national and global challenges

Vision
‘Aworld in which thriving, inclusive and healthy rural communities are recognized as the
key toa sustainable future forall

Objectives and Outcomes

+ Aphysical and virtual hub for achieving the UNESCO Man and the Biosphere program
Lima 2016 strategic objectives, focusing on building sustainable rural communities.

+ Acollective Centre forthe support of sustainable development practices amongst the
various players ofthe 52 member states ofthe UNESCO EuroMAB network.

‘+ Dialogue, research and education to inspire and inform community leaders and the
general public about pathways to achieving sustainable rural communities.

‘+ Recognize and capitalize on Indigenous, traditional and scientific knowledge to produce
{innovative solutions for the challenges of biodiversity loss, climate change and
sustainable development.

Benefits to Brockville
‘The Centre will bring significant benefits tothe City of Brockville. It will provide a
substantial opportunity to partner with that facility and to complement their multi-million

Page 20 of 65,

dollar investments in natural and cultural interpretive displays focusing on the role and on-
the-ground impact of Biosphere Reserves locally, nationally and globally. Having been
‘chosen as the project location proposed by 3 highly respected organizations, UNESCO,
Queen's University, and the Canadian Biosphere Reserves Association, Brockville has the
‘opportunity to take advantage of those very prestigious brands.

A globally sanctioned initiative in research and education adds substantial credibility to
Brockville's reputation and opens new doors to opportunities for job creation, both direct
and indirect, in research, education, manufacturing (through research spin-offs), and the
service sector. The focus on sustainability and the related “green” economic sectors is very
timely with the huge new financial commitments being made by all 3 levels of government
for new infrastructure and programs to mitigate and adapt to climate change and to
address the wide-ranging issues related to environmental stewardship.

‘The ICSRC project offers Brockville an opportunity to coalesce a leadership role with the
small rural communities of Eastern Ontario on the challenges of sustainability and
resilience, and to assist them in overcoming the traditional concerns of competition with a
fresh, new opportunity for cooperation on pressing, ifnot fully recognized, challenges

Project Status

‘The initial phase of the project received funding from the Cty of Brockville Economic
Development department and private donors for the meeting of a BuroMAB Working
Group and freshwater round table in November 2016 in order to advance the project. The
completed work phases of the ICSRC project are as follows:

1. Review and refinement of requirements by Working Group
2, Freshwater round table session
3. Approvals of Canadian Biospheres and Canadian Biosphere Reserve Association

‘The next phases of the project require funding of approximately $70,000, and the ICSRC is
looking to private donors to fund this next phase in its entirety. The following work phases
are for feasibility studies with which the ICSRC will produce a full business plan for the
Centre. The business plan will then be used to seek major international, federal, and
provincial funding, The anticipated costs associated with phases 4 to 10 ofthe project are
‘outlined below, and the work phases will take place between January and October 2017. 1t
should be noted that the budget presented below does not include the substantial in-kind
contribution ofthe time and expertise of the ICSRC co-chairs, special advisors and working
group members valued in excels of $25,000 for phases 1 to 10 ofthe project.

‘twill significantly help fo move this project forward if we are able fo attract
donations using the ability to issue tax receipts through the City of Brockville. We
therefore ask for Council's consideration of this proposal.

Page 21 of 65

‘The work phases to be completed are:

4, Post working group meetings - consultants input $13,000
Production and review of Working Group minutes

Conversion of space program to preliminary floorplans

Producea preliminary sketch design (2 exterior elevations)

Produce preliminary construction specifications and LEED options

Complete construction cost estimate

Develop operating cost estimates

Outline virtual delivery options and costs

Creation of preliminary website

5. Economic analysis by consultant $20,000
Interview key market representatives for programs and confirm areas of opportunity listed
by working group

‘Speak with funding sources and identify parameters

Establish guidelines for project success

Produce capital budget, and operating budget

Verify key sources of research funding,

6. Production of project prospectus $6,000
‘Tech writer creates text and other content based on materials generated from working
group minutes, consultant reports, and economic analysis

Drawings and budgets to be include

Staff member coordinates proof reading and printing of 250 colour copies

Project presentation created

7. Consultations with UNESCO officials $3,500
Presentations to boards of key Canadian biosphere reserves, Canadian Commission for
UNESCO and with UNESCO MAB officials

8. Meetings with key partners $2,000
Discussions with key partners, foundations and donors in Canada, USA and Europe
regarding project funding

Submission of funding applications to federal and provincial programs

Municipal discussions regarding federal infrastructure program as sources and related
applications

9. Incorporation and charitable status $1,000
Register centre as a not-for-profit and apply for charitable statu.

10. Administrative support $22,000
‘9 months of administrative support by contract employee.

TOTAL $69,500

a!

millierdickinsonblais Appendix B

Brockville Economic Development Strategic Directions
Update 2015

Millier Dickinson Blais — August 26, 2015

9910 2z 960g

Contents

1 INTRODUCTION.
2 BEYOND THE 2008 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY.
3 WHERE IS BROCKVILLE NOW?..

a4
aaa
312
313
314

32

4. WHERE DOES BROCKVILLE NEED TO GO?.

aa

STRENGTHS, WEAKNESSES, OPPORTUNITIES AND THREATS
STRENGTHS
WEAKNESSES
OPPORTUNITIES:
THREATS
(COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES AND COMPETITIVE DISADVANTAGES

ECONOMIC DIVERSIFICATION
MUNICIPAL SERVICES AND GOVERNMENT RELATIONSHIPS
EMPLOYMENT LANDS AND INFRASTRUCTURE.

TOURISM DEVELOPMENT AND PROMOTION
DEMOGRAPHIC SHIFTS

1 ater Dickinson Bias - Brocka 2015 Economie Development Steep Dretons Update

9910 €2 960g


ee!

1 Introduction

{In 2009 the City of Brockle undertook a Corporate Analysis that resulted in an extensive and multifaceted planning
process in fur areas:

Economic Development Strategy

Integrated Community Sustainabiity Pian

"© Downtown and Waterront Master Plan and Urban Design Strategy

"Land Use and Growth Management Strategy

‘The emergent economic development strategy led to numerous high-ievel recommendations that advocated for
processes that would build foundations for future development actives. The opportunities and corresponding actions
‘.uined in this economic development strategic update shit the focus from the high-level directional adjustments of the
previous strategy fo more fine-grained, specic actions, The cty completes an annusl report on outcomes in order to track
progress toward identified objectives.

‘A tacltated workshop was conducted with Brockvile's community and business leaders to determine where future
‘strategic directions are required to continue Brockvlle's economic development growth, The results were captured and

Incorporated into the strategic update in adction to reviews of progress since the previous strategy and socio-economic
dota from Statistics Canada. Ths strategic update contains three primary components:

"Beyond the 2009 Economic Development Strategy is a chapter dedicated to reviewing some broad directions
ofthe previous strategy and a discussion of key activites undertaken by the City to move economic development
forward in Brockville since 2009

Where is Brockville Now? provides a strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats (SWOT) analysis and

Competive advantages and disadvantages analysis to ident Brockule’s curent assets, challenges or barrie,

‘and competitive postoning

** Where does Brockville Need to Go? transates the results ofthe preceding analyses into a series of
‘opportunities and action areas, accompanied by performance measures, the role played by the local economic

‘development ofce (as care or non-core focused), and potental partners to help tranelate actions into outcomes

2 Mie Dein Bas ~ Broke 2015 Economie Development Strategie Dretons Update

9910 42 9604


ee!

2 Beyond the 2009 Economic Development
Strategy

‘The most recent Economie Development Strategy undertaken bythe City of Brockville was in 2008, n concert wth three
other key strategic documents, trom which a primary masterplan was constructed. The four strategic documents were:

© Economic Development Strategy

Integrated Community Sustainability Plan

Downtown and Waterfront Master Plan and Urban Design Strategy

"Land Use and Growth Management Svategy

At the time of constructing the four documents, a special effort was made to ensure continuities existed between them. It
carried an emphasis on socio-economic wellbeing in conjunction with values and needs identified in the Integrated
Community Sustainabitty Pian. Therefore, notions related to preparing the exstng workforce and workforee of tomorrow
for skied labour and specialty trades or professions were key themes. In total, four themes represent the areas of
‘attention artcuiated in te Economic Development Strategy

Investment atraction, retention and expansion

Tourism industry expansion

Entrepreneur attraction

Workforce development

While interesting opportunites materialized within the themes, eral, one shortcoming ofthe strategy was that it lacked
‘spec, actionable and measurable instructions because ofan emphasis on macro-economic creumstances, conditions
‘and organizational management. Exceptionally, content that shared overap withthe Integrated Community Sustanabilty
Plan was accompanied by more specif actions and targets. Nonetheless, coming out ofthe 2009 Economic
Development Strategy, the City of Brackvile made progress wihi the strategic areas ented. The tems discussed
below represent specific examples of exercises and actions undertaken by the Cty orn which it supported a leadership
role among other organizations or champions

Residential Attraction ~ Since 2009, Brockville has made efforts to leverage its locaton along the St Lawrence River
and proximity to Ottawa and Montreal to draw more demographics tothe area Immigration became an area of strategic
focus, resulting in Federal funding over a five year period beginning in 201 and the creation of an ambassador network
Centred on local immigrant communities. Another direction taken was to market Brockville under a ifestye intative based

9910 52 9604

‘on significant website overnaul and the introduction of social media presence in residential attraction. Retirees have.
‘also been a target for atraction because ofthe disposable income that typically accompanies the demographic.
Contributing to spending on local retail and services.

Waterfront Development ~ In conjunction with cbjectves to promote Brockvle asa lifestyle location, waterfront
<ovelopment was identfied as a means of improving the local quaity of fe. This included upgrades to Water Street and
condominium devetopments such as Tall Ships Landing, each designed to atract more residents tothe downtown cove.
Consistent with the Residential Atraction goal, downtown development goals marketed Brockvil to siver spenders (ie.
Fetred people with large disposable incomes that italy discover Brockville via fourm and may want o take up
residence). Aesthetic components of the waterfront development objective cros into the goals of ether priory areas such
288 tourism, investment atraction and entrepreneur atraction,

Educating the Workforce of Tomorrow ~ The City of Brockill asserted itself early following the 2008 Strategy by
‘attempting to atracta satelite university campus tothe city. An agreement favoured by the City and Algoma University,
‘would have ied toa start-up program of nitaly 2 students, o be increased pending intrest and uptake. Unfortunately,
‘the Province filed to continue wit the program of adding satelite campuses and itiatves across Ontaro were
‘suspended or cancelled. Nonetheless, the efforts undertaken by the City to ideniy possible partners and to provide
‘Algoma with vison and opportunity for expansion speaks to the commitment ofthe City to Kentiying and implementing
‘actions that may lead to decreases in youth exodus and perhaps even draw young adults tothe ely. Amore successful
endeavor has been the City's facitator role in bringing industry needs in touch wih skis development trough the
brokering ofa relationship between St. Lawrence College and the local workforce development board. The partnership is
‘aimed at finding Solutions to identified skis gaps.

‘Tourism Development and Attraction — In adition to improvements to the downtown core that has seen beautfcation
{nd a push toward intensification of mixed-use ling, the City has provtized tourism development and associated sector
growth through encouraging entrepreneurs to invest in local opportunities and champloned two flag-ship natives that
have enhanced tourism in the City. In 2013 the Cty played host toa Tall Ships Festival, which led to an annual spinoff
festival parcpated in by two tal ships that offer vistors excursions among the 1000 islands. In alton, the Cty has
played 2 lead role developing the Aquatarum, where the natural beauty ofthe 1000 lslands ecosystem, scenic views,
‘actives, and education experiences come together. In development over the last two yeas, the Aquatarium is scheduled
to offal open its doors later this year.

Rogional Economie Development Collaborations ~ Following the 2009 Strategy, Brockvile approached the United
‘Counties of Leeds an Grenvile in an aim to adopt a more regionaly-centic approach to economic development. While
the projec did have some support, there were also complications associated wth finding areas of common agreement,
‘and possible fears of compettion. Though suppor is strong among Brocialle industries toward a broader approach to

99 10 92 9604


economic development, the various communities dif in interest. Ongoing interest ina regional approach stl remains in
Brockvile, but because ofthe lack of reciprocity ithas become a mid-term opportunity rather than an immediate pro,

City Infrastructure and Employment Lands — With growing interest in ste development opportunites for business to
business related services, light industrial manufacturing and logistics warehousing, Brockvile has positioned ise as a
‘community entering a renaissance of development opportunites. To address these and other demands for empioyment
lands, the City has been working to bring another 120 acres of business park property inthe northeast porton ofthe ey
‘online. Brockvle's serviceable infrastructure is currently only running at hal capac for water and waste-water
‘rocessing and can therefore accommodate significant demands fr grow,

Entrepreneurial Support - Since the 2008 Strategy, support of entrepreneurs and their potential Brockville has been
‘active in securing funding fora plot program related to youth entrepreneurship. In addition, the cty has managed to
‘tract angel investors from Kingston and Ottawa in growing numbers since 2012, The City has also collected data on
small business consulting professionals to identity sector potential and has established a summer-company program for
‘Students with entrepreneurial business ideas. The target demographic of eiees the City is seeking to attract may also,
become part ofthe consuitant economy as well as offer mentorship opportunities to young entrepreneurs embarking on
their own career,

‘As the examples above ilustrate, some matters though well-intentioned and locally supported, become challenges that
cannot be overcome by the efforts of Brockvile alone. Other matters are more easy brokered and arranged by the Cty
‘but also involve engagement with other partners or stakeholders. A common tread i thatthe economic development
Iniatives unfolding since the 2009 strategy share the need to form and maintain sold relatonships and distinguish the
‘oles diferent partners or paripants play.

‘The strategic inate outined in the previous strategy formed a high eve or macro blueprint forthe management,
structure and operations ofthe City’s economic development prospects that was essential atthe time. Because of the
high-evel orientation ofthe previous strategy, specif opportunites for economic development that resonate more
<recty at the local evel were not a strong component of the strategy. Going forward, the strategic recommendations.
‘uted i his update wil be rooted in a more detailed and action-oriented sat of opportunities applieable to Brockvile's
specific economic development aspirations.

5 Mle Dickinson Bae ~ Brockile2015Eeonemie Development Strategie Directions Update

g


3 Where Is Brockville Now?

‘This section provides an overview ofthe current on-the-ground economic realty in Brockile, derived by consultations

conducted with business and community leaders and review of Statstcs Canada data. These sources inform a Strengths,

Weaknesses,
sedvantages,

pportunites and Threats (SWOT) Analysis and subsequent ciscussion of competitive advantages and

3.1 Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats

‘The items identified in the SWOT Analysis represent the workshop contributions of community and business leaders in
combination wth previous development progress and Statistics Canada Data, Because of he subjective perspectives

Cffered by participants during consultation, some contbutons llustrated gaps in understanding of opportunities to inform

stakeholders of possible misconceptions. Where misconceptions exist they have been identified and addressed

accordingly.

Figure 1 explains how diferent elements of a SWOT Analysis are associated with generating strategic actions. Each
element ofthe SWOT is taken in tum below.

FIGURE +: FEATURES AND INPLICATIONS OF A SGT ANALISYS

rategicaly Action
\Uriaue or ery strong factors that provide curent Prosett

Strengtns | compete aavartge Further develop or captaize upon t
Areas of curentconpstive dsaavartage misheta | Seeament

Weaknesses, | Aas of aunt como rata Repositon to lina the woakness (realty orby

tng aloratve pereptons
tunes | Stations tat can result new eb, txassensment, |» Feasbity testing

Sppertuntis | rvestment reais ee ‘Acton planing

Threats | Staton fat can rest nos investment and Fisk assenement
eaine in communty strength Contingency pannieg

© ter xian

9910 92 000g

3.4.4 Strengths

Waterfront- Watertront space is at @ premium in most ces, Brockville boasts a large waterront wth diverse sceneries,
‘2ctvites, amenities and ving arrangements, nd an above average amount of puble access and connectivly. The
waterfront as an atraction ais has positive spn-os fr local etal, food service and commerce from late spring through
autumn

Gateway tothe 1000 Istands ~ The 1000 Islands represent an ofen quoted natural asset, a tracltional pat of the tourist
raw and growing education related development opportunites, Algo, Brockville borders on the Frontenac Arch
Biosphere, a UNESCO World Biosphere reserve, established in 2002,

{Quality of ite— The combination ofocaton, scenery, amenities and population characteristics make for @ positive
‘quality of life valued by residents and vistors. The community is valued as a great place to raise a family wit all needed
‘amenities nearby, and an affordable cost of lving that outperforms larger nearby urban centres such as Otawa and
kingston

‘Continued demand for industry ~ Despite the recent economic recession, Brockvle remains a location of interest for
Investment in food production, ife-sclences, and advanced manufacturing and logistic sectors,

‘Location ~ Proximity to Ottawa, Montreal, Kingston, Toronto and United States make Grockvile an inviting place for
entrepreneurs and industry that need to access thase markets. Brockvile has access to over 1 milion people within an
ours travel

"No commute, no travel Many people in search of a comfortable work-life balance appreciate that all amenities exist
iin the city as well a infrastructure to accommodate business needs, resulting in less commuting and travelto and
from work orto needed services.

Infrastructure capacity ~ The C's infrastructure can withstand significant fture growth or expansion in water and
waste-water infrastructure. Water facies currently operate at less than 0% capacty, leaving room for significant
{r0Wth. In adiion, the cty has a broadband infastrcture as advanced as Kingston and Ottawa, which many
surrounding communities do not

Strong corporate citizens ~ Brockvile hosts a large numberof locally developed businesses whose proprietors are
‘engaged within the community and wing to use thelr influence and professional networks to suppor investment,
‘traction. They are also actively engaged in civ lfe and the communty more broadly.

‘ter Dickinson Bas Brockvit 2015 Economie Development Strategie Drectons Updte

9910 62 960g


Regional hub ~ Brocivil isa regional hub for employment, major services, commerce and recreational activity, I
‘attracts more working commuters than it loses to other communities on a dally basis, The strength result in minimized
‘economic leakage and a net-export economy in terms of tourism attraction, oods and services.

Regional investment attraction marketing ~ Brockile is an active member ofthe Ontario East Economic Development
‘Commission's (OEEDC) investment attraction partnerships in logistics, advanced manufacturing, and food processing,

3.1.2 Weaknesses

‘Lack of awareness of economic development resources — Knowledge of existing economic development related
Programs and tools may be limited among existing and potential business owners, leading to missed opportunities fr to
receive appropiate ai, guidance or support In particular, small businesses and independent entrepreneurs may not be
‘aware of the extent of services and resources that may help them, such as help with business plans, accessing capital
and other supports.

Inconsistent merchant operating hours — The variability of merchant hours of operation makes for inconsistent
offerings and potential perceptual challenges associated wit the ability to accommodate tourism and client elated
demands,

Oversaturation and non-<iversity of restaurants and retail Increases in the numberof restaurants and retall can
potentaly dute market shore, leading to stagnation in availabe choices and dificully for new ventures to gain entry
‘without an accompanying growth in population or increases in tourism,

Lack of regional collaboration - Despite a wilingness of Brockville to inate regional colaboration, the City lacks
reciprocity from surrounding communities.

Lack of developable land ~ Based on recent investment interest availabe industrial land may become limited inthe near
futur,

‘Skilled Labour - Access to skied labour isa continuous challenge to some manufacturers and healthcare sector
employers.

Dectining youth population — Declines inthe population of young adults represenis a shortage of human capital
Potential skiled labour and the next generation of entrepreneurs. Moreover, the cutiow of youth also demonstrates a loss

cf potential local spending as the demographic is normally within the prime family producing and career development
ges of25 to 44,

Mer lckinson Bas — Broke 2015 Economie Development Strategic Dretions Update

19910 06 abe

‘Stagnant immigration growth - Despite efforts, the immigration population in Brockville has decned between 2006 and
2011 census years

Broadband infrastructure perceptions ~ Despite having broadband infrastructure that ison par with Otawa and
Kingston, there is a misperception Brockville’ internet infrastructure is slow and does not have @ wide bandwidth While
‘many rural communities surrounding the city do not have advanced broadband capabiltes, Brockvile is competvely
positioned to meet residential and commercial broadband needs, The mispercepton is identified as a weakness because
‘the myth continues to be perpetuated by some locals, thus hindering markatabilty.

3.1.3 Opportunities

Home-based professional business ~ Among the growing population of retired or semi-retired professionals in
Brockvile there i the potential to grow the numberof home-based professional business, of ione-eagies” In adn,
‘rout inthis sector can lead to mentorship opportunities for young entrepreneurs, or be used to leverage attraction of
people from their professional networks to make simitar decisions,

Logistics and distribution — Supply chain minimization isan established science thats leading to coneolisation and
‘efficiencies around the globe. Brockvile is geographicaly wel-postioned to capitalize on some aspect of this business.

Infrastructure capacity ~ Brockvile's infrastructure capacty can accommodate many more industrial and residential
developments, but because the community faces a shortage of developable land, alliances may need tobe brokered with
‘neighbouring municipalities to ensure investment grows in the region.

Centre of freshwater excellence ~ Concems over water quality and adequate supply have become an important issue
In Canada and the resto the world. These concerns will become greater asthe expanding human population puts more
‘and more demand on this limited resource. Quality research and rained professionals capable of solving the complex:
problems related to sustaining or improving water qualty to meet these demands isa projected area of growth in future
‘employment forecasts. As a community on one of the largest freshwater ecosystems in the World, one thats trying
established ts waterfront as @ destination including the new Aquatarium) and a community tha is near a numberof
mporant institutions that study these issues (e.g. St Lawrence River Insttute of Envronmantal Science, Queen's
Engineering and Applied Science, Clarkson Univers Institute fr @ Sustainable Environment, University of Ottawa Earth
‘and Environmental Sciences) there isan opportunity for Brockvile to establish itself as an administration centre as well
{a a launching point for science thats conducted in the region. Furthermore, the proximity of the UNESCO Frontenac
‘Arch Blosphere reserve may lend to opportunites associated wit the development of a United Nations Centre for
‘Sustainable Tourism at or near the Aquatarium.

iter Diekinon Sais Brocka 2015 Economie Devslopment Statege Directions Update

9910 1e obeg


0

Educational tourism  Buldng off the idea above, continue to promote opportunities for experiential leaming via
<iferent tour's assets, suchas the fort-coming Aquatarium and natural ecosystem, and in collaborations with St.
Lawrence Colege and other nearby education insttutions. Education opportuntesinchide hyerogeology programs,
‘suba cetfeaton programs, marine biology and water-based science courses,

‘Mult-generational attraction - People nearing the age of retirement or that ae in retirement are interested in locations.
uch a8 Brockvile because of is amenites and quaity of Ife. The demographic is growing locally, representing an
‘opportunity for using new arrivals as testimonials and ambassadors fr attracting other rtrees. At the same time, to
‘counteract the outiow of young adults, an opportunity exists to attract young adults tothe area based on entrepreneurial,
Professional or trade-spectic prospects,

Immigration attraction strategies — An opportunty exists to study what other communities have successfully
‘accomplished in attracting a skilled immigrant labour force or entrepreneurs to ther municipalities. Examples include
Peterborough, Thunder Bay and North Bay.

‘Angel investment ~ Opportunies exist o continue the existing momentum in ange! investor interest within the Cy
Diversified manufacturing ~ Manufacturing can continue to diversify through grow in fod processing, technology and
‘supply-chain sectors via continual engagement with existing businesses and ther networks, and through regionally
ofiented, sector specific working-groups witin the OEEDC. Retaining a healthy manufacturing ecosystem wil atract
Industries that identity advantages to being situated in Brockvil

All season tourism ~ Encourage tourism operations that can function year-round or be converted to suit seasonal
concltons, including winter activites and festivals that wil bring vistors to the communty. The opportunity exists to also
work with existing operators to excand or diversity thir business offerings to capture clients year-round, The suggestion
during the consultation was given for an all-season sport complex, as a possibie draw.

Differentiating Brockville's waterfront An opportunity exists for Brockvile to diferente its waterfront fom other
similar communities, particularly to the casval traveller. Case studies in successful waterfront marketing may bring,
forward best practices,

Economic development resources and services ~ A gap was identified related to misunderstancing the diferent
resources and services offered bythe City's Economic Development Office and ather partner organizations, revealing an
‘opportunity to better inform the business community of eflerngs.

Cruise ship and boat tour attraction ~ There is interest in attracting cruise ship and boat tours tothe watertont.

ater Dickinson ine ~ Brock 2015 Economie Development Strategie Dretons Upsete

9910 ze 960g

Waterfront taxi ~ An opportunity exists for enepreneurs to develop water taxi services that alow vistors access to
<esignated islands and excursions, including online and moble-device booking and pre-payment options.

Farmers’ market An opportunity exists to enhance the promotion of the Farmers’ Market to appeal o visitors and locals
In conjunction with sustainability and buy-local values. Ensure it remains @ component of watetont promotion.

Craft brewing - Identity and colectvely market craft brewers as a potential niche tourism sector.

Social media and marketing - The use of online marketing trough socal media may hep iferentiate Brockvile from
Competitors and increase awareness of tourism assets. Cross-promation between different amenities wil also amply
‘exposure. For exemple, focal businesses use social media to help promote a local event, or when a restaurant
rometes a local boat cruise, Small businesses can often benef from online webinars that show how to effectively use
social media in their marketing and promotion

Regional approach ~ To address regional aspirations for investment attraction, a business plan can be created that
argues a case for regional participation based on identified regional assets, benchmarks and projections. The business
‘community must be engaged inthe process 38 a voce for broader demand across the ragion in conjunction with ongoing
brokering with other municipalities themselves. The Quinte Economic Development Corporation model was denied as a
positive case study,

Certification designation ~ To enhance atractive ness to potential new residents and investment attraction, the City
‘needs to continue to pursue certification designations such as being an age-ienaly community, cyce-‘rendly community,
‘and safe community, some of which have been achieved already.

3.1.4 Threats

‘Seasonal tourism - An over-focus on summer tourism attraction may result in lage seasonal spars in employment
‘and income for operators.

‘Similar waterfront communities ~ Despite prise in Brockville’ waterfront, the communty struggles with diferentating
itset from other communities along the St. Lawrence River and the 1000 Isiands mere special.

‘Cornwall and Kingston land availability — Given Brockvill's shrinking available land and surrounding communities!
lack of serviced land, prospective investors seeking 401 coridor access andlor access to the United States may choose
‘Comal or Kingston as locations instead ofthe Brockville area,

11 ie Dickinson Blas ~ Brochite 2015 Economic Development Strategie Directions Update

9910 €¢ obeg

ee!

Global economicimarket conditions ~ Economic conditions imposed by the global economy may lead to oft shoring of
local industry, plant-<losures for mutational corporations inthe City andor reduced product demand for export
industries,

‘Aging population — While increasing the overall appeal of the City to retirees remains of strategic interest to the City, an
‘2ging population also caries imphcations for loca infrastructure that requi advanced planning If complications are to be
avoid.

Lack post-secondary education options ~ While St Lawrence College provides some post-secondary education
‘options, not all programs offered by the institution are available in Brockvil, daspite the need for specifi trades and skil
‘sets within the local workore. In adction, a recent Algoma University satelite campus partnership was denied approval
by the Province, leaving a continued gap in access to unversit-evel courses for locals. The effect means that many
young aduits may relecate for education purposes atthe risk of not returning upon completion of their programs or
degrees,

"Non-regional cooperation Identiti as a weakness, the lack of consolidated investment attraction ata regional evel
diminishes the competitiveness of the entire region, resulting in a threat to future development.

3.2 Competitive Advantages and Competitive Disadvantages

Compettive advantages are local assets or strengths that stand out among neighbouring or competing municipalities
Disadvantages are weaknesses or barriers relative to other municipalities. The intersecton of diferent strenghhs and
assets in Brockvilecan highight compettive advantages if neighbouring communities are lacking in these quaites, while
the inverse represents competitive disadvantages for Brockvile, when other communities hold strengths and assets that,
Broctole does not

‘Competitive Advantages
Diversified Economy — Brochvile's economy boasts @ mix of small and medium sized enterprises across dverse sectors
including healthcare and social services, manufacturing, educational services, publi administration, constuction and
‘transportation and warehousing. Even within the manufacturing sector there is dversifcation between heavy and ight
levels of industry, food production and supply chain materials. Pubic instutions including municipal and county
‘government, healthcare, judiciary and school administration employ many residents at reesonable wages within an

i
g


ee!

2

affordable community. The tourism sector and etailpersoral services also contribute tothe diversity of local enterprises.
\When recessions occur Brockvile's unemployment rate does not waver as acutely ae the Provincial median. Therefor,
is dversifed economy ensures Brockvle Is never atthe mercy of extreme changes in a spectc sector.

Low labour costs ~ Brockville faces a double-edged sword In regard to labour costs, Many jobs in Brockville do not pay
28 well as in other areas of Ontario, wth the cys annual household Income being approximately $15,000 below the
Provincial median, The advantage is thatthe labour force is inexpensive, whic posttons the cty wll for potental
investment atracton in need of unskilled labour. If there were mare skilled labour within the existing workforce or
employers that demanded it and trained up the workfore, the median household income distribution would be higher,
‘and unsklledlabour-related advantages would be reduced.

‘Strategic location — While there are some challenges in cifferentiating Brockile from some neighbouring communities,
With similar assets, Brockul's location as being within one hour of Kingston and Ottawa, neighbouring the United States,
‘wo hours fram Montreal and four hours from Toronto make it @ particularly great locaton for any industy that eles on
‘any two ofthese cies for supplies or market access. Brookville i inthe ‘sweet spot. The cy is also on @ maln CN Rail
line and VIA Ral tran rote along the Montreal Windsor Corridor. Brockvile's industrial park is win minutes of Highway
401 and sis onthe shore ofthe St-Lawrence River and watershed, Al ofthese factors combine to make the City
competitive in atvacting investment and a potential hotbed for entrepreneurs looking fo escape congested cles such as
(Otawa of Toronto,

‘Active and engaged corporate citizens ~ Many owners of large businesses in Brockvile are resisents ofthe city and
‘are active in civic Ite. n other large businesses, executive and senior management ae the face of the companies within
the commun. These corporate ctizens are devoted tothe broader economic wellbeing ofthe community and go to
lengths to remain involved in ferent facets of growing the local economy. The local Chamber of Commerce and
Business improvement Associaton are active within the business community. These different stakeholder groups also
‘work with the economic development fice by providing feedback, advice or suppor on lcalinatves. A number of
ambassadors have emerged from within the corporate community participate in investment atraction, angel investment
‘traction or attracting specific demographics tothe are. In short, the business community and its engagement in
broader society make it an important aly ofthe City and champion for local and regional growth

‘Competitive Disadvantages
Employment land availability ~ Brockville faces depletion of employment lands. While an employment lands strategy is
In development to identity opportunites for amelioration, including partnerships with neighbouring municipalities or
‘annexation of lands, the lack of available development land may mean Brockville loses out to communities such as
Kingston and Cornwall that boast a combination of avaiable serviced land and proximity to markets,

Ate Dikinon Ble - Brocka 2015 Economie Development Step Drectons Update

9910 se abe


Lack of skilled labour and declines in youth — An out migration of young adults in combination with imted local
‘options for postsecondary education has resulted in a local sklled labour shortage. Though the trend is endemic of most
‘ommuntes with populations smaller than 100,000 in Ontario, the proximity to Otawa, Kingston and even Montreal as
locations for post-secondary education take tei tol on labour-orce competitiveness, which can hod implications for
investment atracton and small enterprise development. In addltion to out-migration competitor communities wth post.
secondary institutions such asthe above listed also craw students from other areas increases the competitiveness of
‘those host communities, especialy if they remain post-graduation. Thus, Kingston and Ottawa wil alvays likely hold
some compettive advantage over Brockvl in regard to skied labour availabilty, by vitue of their populations and
institutions, but Brockville could reciaim some competitiveness fit had greater offerings in post-secondary education.

Miter Dickinson Blas ~ Brochile 2015 Economic Development Strategie Directions Update

9910 9¢ abe

4 Where Does Brockville Need To Go?

Based on the resus ofthe preceding SWOT and competitiveness analysis, a varity of action areas have emerged fiting
within five broad opportunity directions, summarized in Figure 2. Within each opportunity area rationales are provided for
corresponding acon items. Each theme is addressed in turn below.

FIGURE 2 STRATEGIC ECONOMIC FOCIAND ACTION At

Economic Diversification

Municipal Services and
Government Relationships

Employment Lands and |= : slaning
Infrastructure

Tourism Developm:
Promotion

Demographic Shifts

15 er Dickinson Bias - Brochite 2015 Economie Development Steeple Directions Update

9910 ze 0003

Following each opportunity area isa table that outines the following

"= Action Areas ~ This isa sub-heading below the opportunity area indicating where one or more corresponding actions
‘twithin the broader opportunity

‘Specific Actions ~ This isting identifies individual areas where activities are undertaken in support ofan action area

Key performance measures ~ These are identified means of racking progress of specie actions recognized by the

Economic Developers Associaton of Canada and Ontario Ministry of Agriculture, Foed and Rural Affairs

(Core / Non-core Focus - A means of identifying actions that would tracktionally fall within the operations ofan

‘economic development and turism office (core) or another municipal or partner jursdcton (non-core) in which the

‘economic development office plays @ facilitator or support role but does nt directly lead

Possible Partners ~ kentiied organizations (public, private oF non-profit that would be helpful nfufiling action areas

16 ter Dickinon Bias - Brocktle 2015 Econemie Development Steele Directions Updete

9910 8¢ 960g


4.1 Economic Diversification

‘The economic diersication opportunity area builds on existing strengths resutng in four prio action areas,
summarized below in Figure 3. Diversification implies strength in mutipleindusty sectors so as to afford stability within
the local economy, encourage innovative and interconnected business ecosystems and broaden assessment revenues
and spin-off economic benefits. Retal isnot discussed as a means of encouraging economic diversification because itis
more often a result ofa strong a growing economy and healthy population rather than a diver. Tourism, algo being 2
‘component of adversiied economy, has its own opportunty area discussed below.

FIGURE & ECONOMIC DVERSIFICATION ACTION AREAS AND RATIONALES

Economic
Diverisification

17 lier Dickinson Bis - Broehie 2018 Economic Development Strategic Drctons Update

9910 6¢ 000g

es!

FIGURE & STRATEGIC ACTIONS FOR ECONOMIC DVERSIFICATION

Care TWon
Core Focss | Potntal |
Action roa Sect Actions Kay Performance Measures “ered” | Partos
1 Sona vate can nays 1
Iman acting scare ney gas ard ste nus eat a
‘opportunities for specific industry attraction 1. Ustot potential industry lacs obtained
that ented gape
that woul be a goed roa exam
2. lent key nasty ambassads io
and benef or etigbusessce aed yi
* comet E50 win sup chan eda
|wesnont |> Se te ecimanscin tiene | compensa copes: |. coe
nme | somactesabanevanaresute resorted [2 Care| O€EDC and oer
| Supoly chain netwerks to entice relocation or | fonow-ups conducted: progress. 3. Core | municipalties
‘partion Bec ftowps
2 Wee OEEDC wcoriomeecato | TEM
ivesmet ttc naderced
bir ana controulon ogee a
tracing eo rodcton aa bine ad cnt
‘Senos, etngy angst cease
‘eiral aoea of asin Ona
1. fay ona soda based on
1. ent ptotal eagle htc in Caran Buses Pater door
itera su sectors and matt ppcrunies | 2008 and 218 vat goth Seng Lene
andasvanages Brake werd tese | Bove and compete communes aie
soso 2 Werkng rou geal Setod reser |, ogg community
2. lata Lin xgeveninggcip coating |° metas andeicway popes | oie Sm
Lone Eagle of local practitioners to aid in strategic. ‘monitored 3. Non-core | department and
stracton | Slamngandcueas 2. Toning tian anges, trtoran st | Nonsie | depatert
2. Grese zenig cesoratontornome-tased |” John BC as cave Sy Mead | careme
ist wn sets utpraneter ety, | 4 Number of sco med lowes an Sonsin
space roquremersandsanctened aches’ | hates nner of weet hi tumber esa
4. Initiate awareness program of engagements where designation was "
5. Caine lcenang costs enaiage ake | rome post cree
5._ Number thoes so _

18 ter Dickinson Bias - Boch 2015 Economie Development Stee Directions Update

6910 oF abe


Gore /Non-
coreFocus | Potential
Action Area Specific Actions Koy Performance Measures for E00 Partners
1. Understand al channels of water-based ‘Degree to which Brockile is home
etvienmenta esearch and programs being | this werk or potential nome to his |
completed by universities, non-governmental | research
organizations and provinilederal ‘Community-based partnerships wil help
Centre of government to stoer marketing campaigns and core | Matai, St
freshwater |2._AFreshwater Excelence Team should be ‘approaches, and provide realtime SSS | Lawrence |
excellence | eslablsheste bing lecal exper toetheron | sectobasedinieligence whie ensuing |? CO | Colege, pate |
‘an ongoing basis to advise and direct that eforts ere based in practical sector
| economic development ef. Understandings ofthe target industy’s
| | 3. Complete feasibly study forestabishmentot | needs
2 Cenire to Kenly te economic potential of | 3. Unestanding of te retum on
the intaive investment for such a Cente,
Local business)
1. Coninus to everage existing netwercot ees! | race of teas om business porary
Angel business connections to other cites, Teena ot tera +. cow | atong ack
Investors Speoticaty Otawa and Kingston Number of functions being offered versus | 2. Core | Feards in
| 2. Atendance at investor Netwerking funcéons, | Number networking
| | in Otawa and Toronto coitien

6910 Ly 9604

4.2 Municipal Services and Government Relationships

This category brings together two areas that resonated within the SWOT and competiveness analysis: municipal
services and govemment relationships. For municipal services, challenges were identified in terms of bureaucratic
hurdles and a lack of awareness of services and resources avalabe to businesses or potential start-ups. The
bureaucratic structure and practices are challenge to businesses because of the diferent departments and levels of
‘government requiing applications, The provision of clear and easy to find informatio for business operators about
existing programs and services that may benefit hem are scattered across multiple jurisdictions and offices,

Itis one thing to be open for business. It's another thing to be open and ready for business, Good customer services will
leave @ positive impression, buld and enhance business relationships, land deals for new development and ensure future
referas.

‘Thor are conmuniis with processes in place o ensure excelencen cent
management and asomer sere fr poeta new ives and ex jan

Busmanes. The Youn ex vented Asx Prony Pat when wesaean ot PTiOrityPATH*
professionals personaly hip companies navigate trough he si plan approval

process. Customers roy expe le plan an buldngepprova, enabling ther fast-track the business pans
Prony ath was aso accompanied by a song banding satey. The Tomehip of Noth Gremile has ls apt @
clentfocued rtatve, whch has become par fs nvexmerteadiness measures and rev accolades tom Otaws-
Sed developers, oa ake pet att.

For goverment relationships there were notions raised regarding the relationship between the ity, other neighbouring
‘municipaities and United Counties of Leeds and Grenvile. The consensus was i favour ofa more unified and
Coordinated approach to investment attraction: however, the wilingness fr a regional approach is strained. The cy has
championed the postion, but interest remains low among possible collaborators. While Breckvile fs open to enhancing
regional development prospects, the urgency has shied from a high pron toa long-term goal. Rather than advancing
‘an aggressive agenda of integration Brockville wil ook to models of other successful regional partnerships such asthe
Quinte Economic Development Corporation modelo identity best practices

2p une cancye

Maier Dikinon tae ~ Brocka 2015 Economie Development tatepe Drctons Update

9910 zy abe

ee!

FIGURE s: MUNICIPAL SERVICES AND GOVERNMENT RELATIONSHIP ACTION AREAS AND RATIONALES

esoe Rationale for Priority

9910 ev abe

ee!

FIGURE 6 STRATEGIC ACTIONS FOR MUNICIPAL SERVICES AND GOVERNMENT RELATIONSHIPS

‘ore Non
core Focus
Action Area Specie Actions Key Performance Measures | for D0 | Potential Partners
‘Develop a compretensive inventor ofa economic
| development assance tos avaiabe to sal
| businesses in coloration wih the Counties,
Resource (Chamber of Commerce, CFDC and OEEDC; ensure | 1. inventory completion 1 core (Chamber of
Andeervice | __ the Inventory is updated annually 2. Website visits 2 Ss Commerce, CFDC,
twareness, |? Devote aspeciicpace on adesignated websteto | 3. Sci media otovers and |2 CO | OEEDC, Business
‘sharing the inventory in a list form with clear ‘shares; email blast tracking leaders
expanation of each tem
Promote he ste ocaly via sci medi, prner
erganizatons and commmunty chamgions
I ley aeons bea om sepsop ral | stosoawa
| ines lta 2. Envolmentin customer-care Atrmunipa
Ensure sa are trained n custoer-care best Exoumentin custome departs noted
‘Making Practices frontline staff 1. Core in approvals or
buninass | Ionty redundant proceso, fms ox procacues |, fonbinesial 1 Cong | Stl
cay thet may add unnecessary hues or barers to eee 3 coe | Ghorteedsana
applcaton or approval processes cay | Coe | Grnue Unie
Eliminate redunéances or steamine mul- 4 Sieg pees Counties
Jurconal processes tis must be done across tne | Aree
local government and wih the Counties seecestconfmed -
11. Retain open-door policy and ‘Mayor, all
focknetnoc ates ranipalies n
Remain open to regionaly-oriented opportunities, but tings whe ree oa rei
regional approaches were and Grenvile
Regional i aeseaelneneeaabel a te ‘emergent themes 1. Core business leaders in
focus Inderake an analy inte Economie rey cbaines fe _| each oman,
Development Corporations regional approach | EDC Strategy obi 2 Gon Guinto Economie
determine appcabity to Leds and Grenvle segues iia Development
identified in Brockville Commission

6910 py abe

4.3 Employment Lands and Infrastructure

‘As identified in the SWOT Analysis, Brockville faces the possibilty ofan employment land shortage. Steps have been
taken by the Cyto assess its infrastructure capacty and expected employment land demands, They City’s infrastructure
‘can accommodate significant future growth, but land i in short supply. A forthooming employment lands strategy wil
provide strategic advice to deal with employment land needs. The logical recommendation for this economic development
‘Strategy update isto defer tothe stratgic advice offered by the employment lands stategy. The ony additonal
recommendation in that regard isto ensure a series of contingency options exit, including deal-making with
neighbouring municipalties. The deal-making opportunity is addressed specticaly a an action area, in addition to the
‘recommendation that the City adopt strategic intatives utined inthe employment land erategy and explore contingency
‘options. The City, holding a service infrastructure that currently runs at half eapacty, can service employment lands, while
neighbouring municiplties arin the predicament of having employment lands but no servicing. Therefore, opportunities
‘exist to forge agreements that would ensure the region benefits from investment atracton and multiple municipalities gain
something they did not have betor,

‘The other aspect ofthis section relates to telecommunications infrastructure, particularly the myth that Brockvile has sub-
‘optimal broadband connectvty. Because Brockville is located in an ienttied commercially competitive zone for
‘customers, the ty enjoys internet connectivity through major suppliers a the same level a large urban centres such 2s,
‘Ottawa and Kingston. Commercial and resident internet access comes at a cost, as isthe same in any large urban
‘centre. The larger the package, the higher the rates willbe. While Brockvle's internat infrastructure is secure, many
‘surounding communities do not have access to as advanced infastructure or service options, which has rested in @
‘case where many people assume that Brockville’ quality of broadband is the same as surrounding rural areas. Brockville
‘needs tobe proactive in ts promotional materials by specyng its internet connectivity and broadband capacty as
‘something on par with any large Ontario city. It also needs to continue to combat misperceptions winen they are
‘mentioned in media or by business or community leasers.

g


ee!

FIGURE 7: MUNICIPAL SERVICES ANO GOVERNMENT RELATIONSHIP ACTION AREAS AND RATIONALES:

Rationale for Priority

19910 9 abe

FIOURE 8 STRATEGIC ACTIONS FOR MUNICIPAL SERVICES AND GOVERNMENT RELATIONSHIPS

Core Non
core Focus | Potential
Action Area Specific Actions Key Performance Measures | for EDO Partners
Employment 1. Based on study current
a 2. \dentty eonsngency ptons (tf not aeady 2, pamacameleted forthe Cty | 1. Core | Ca
in employment land sretgy) 4
contingencies. ‘specie in employr ‘analysis conducted
1. enti neighbouing marcpaos wih pie
Infrastructure | lends equring serving 1. Suficintiand avaiable fr parse
ievereging,  |2. dently agreement principles for stbuton of Sutin nd avai 1. Noneore | Planing
infrastructure capacity to neighbour in exchange Department
for developable and |
7. Include broacband accessby detaisinai 1. Number af promotional
Broadband pomotenal materia materi created wih | Gang
expansion | 2 Confort mists when thy ain media or neviy added ntrmaton | 1 S| Mayor, cA0
among business or communty leaders. supported | 2. Tackinstances and manne |
by factual tals cfesporse -

25 ior lcingon Bae - Broke 2015 Economic Development trate ectons Update

6910 zy 960g

4.4 Tourism Development and Promotion

‘Tourism as a sector is strong in Brockvile with many assets offering visitor a variety of experiences. The antcpation of
the Aquatarium and Tall Ships Festival suggest futher interest and asset development opportunities. Inthe lead-up to
‘Canada's 150" anniversary, there may be opportunites o secure special funding for events orto connect local events to
larger celebrations

Nonetheless, Brockileis in a postion where itrequires dferentiaton from other nearby communities along the St
{Lawrence River and 1000 islands ang runs te risk of dormancy ssues during off-season. n order o ensure this key
clement of Brockvile's diverse economy remain sttong and grows, @ series of actions have been identified to aid the
tourism sector. Brockvill’s Chamber of Commerce is indicated on the Cty of Brocvile's website as the key lea in
tourism development and promotion, whereas the Cy administers capital tourism product and infrastructure
evelopment. A a higher level, the local regional tou'sm office (RTO), which spans from Quinte West to the Quebec
‘border handles promation of local assets to areas outside the region and offers support to tourism operators within the
region in collaboration with tourism development offces in ferent communities. The rle ofthe economie development
cfieis to support, ep promote and ad in tourism development intatives.

g


es!

FIGURE 8: TOURISM DEVELOPMENT AND PROMOTION ACTION AREAS AND RATIONALES

Tourism

development ationale for Priority

27 Aer iekinon

9910 Gr abe

FIOURE 10: STRATEGIC ACTIONS FOR TOURISM DEVELOPMENT AND POMOTION

Core Non
core Focus | Potential
Action Area Specific Actions Key Performance Measures | foreDO. | Partners
Undertake an asset mapping exes to oily
and extoore loal cura ase ining
tour related arenes. ses and evens ensure
the maps publeyaccesabe on relevant mapping completion, CColaboeaton with
wees pte means of eteting he conti |" ASsHh manning compton omarion wth
Scolatrae sees the Counties and regional |, web afierecking sod Gren,
Cau ant | asta ort a9 Commun Fees ee + Noncore as Couel
rappin welopment Corporation funding ton-core | Qnember)
erie Nery ase tat compamenteach oer and | , Povdedto operators | Non cong_| Crores) f
ensure operators are aware of posse cross- Porat mate Fence Ah
promoton opporuntis | compotivedinctons Bosphere
ident assets ta ferent Broce tom
cempetors and iterate fringe ito marketing
statoges; Undertake case studios in watetront
development to ently best practces
Ident target demographics sutabie okey | 7, Key demographics Wenig
cuttural asset packages: | byage group, interests and Chamber of
Formulate outreach strategies for demographics ‘geographic areas Commerce
‘and conduct outreach via tourism office and 2. Number of promotional 4 Ne tourism office;
‘Strategic through Great Water Way regional tourism office materials sent, website hits; jon-core | Regional Tourism
marketing of (RTO) umber af emais and 2 Noncore | organization
tourism assets | 3. Ensure operators are aware of social media newsletters received and | 3 NON-CO® | Community
techniques through workshops or access to ‘opened for-core | Futures.
webinars 3. Number of participants. Development
Provide operators with methodologies for | 4 Ongoing feedback and Corporation

enhancing erss-promaton

checking

9910 05 abe


Core Non- |
core Focus | Potential
Action Area Specific Actions Key Performance Messures | forEDO | Parnere
7. Events Wentfeg redo and
41. Develop and promot year-round events and Eee ene
settee rated atrescerttinteepon | TEESE COTGE Cham of
sounding Brockvileand for Broce residents | YBEK6 one promatong | Gommorce, cA,
‘oy Speci emphasis iequred oncurent | faetedon west Panning
Iul pelos where the Cay exits Geis in Creccntrets —|4, noncore_| Dopartaent
Locattourtem | gram vistors tracted puntmatomas [2 Neneets | trisey ot
| Promotion 2. Outdoor winter activities promoted regionally distributed; schools: 3. Non-core | Tourism, Culture
‘3. Multipurpose Sportpiex feasibility study conducted ‘outreach contacts ‘and Sport
{determine maratabity and uptake at regional | , uteach contac MARA: Private
lovl and potenti for sport tous atracton “ceo secer
3. Budget ne tem approved
lnds ranch aboitpubprvateparneranin | > et ine te approve
and ROI pojectons saxty cna
7 only relevant edieaton programs relat to Chumbere
wat: hyegeay logy a ere ESD | rey rogram and Coat
the sureurding region inventor fea commerce,
2 Condctouteac wh parent ease abot |, SOMee OMe, ‘our of
Education lsaringoppotntes, eu miemanip (whee |? 29! Oa 1 Noncore_|Actani,
tourism sppleane) 3. Onine watcondesgnatea |2 Norcore | wore
2 rai inkages between arin oppountes | Shevatisoncesontel | onare | baton
todlecal acter antec asthe Agatrum | eration and pronto nator
through manting efor, thereby associating ve geen
cvs wth specte place, the wil rqure
raring a brand erred on leaning

6910 1g obeg

4.5 Demographic Shifts

Brockvile is aware of the need to grow its workforce and increase is population, and has taken some steps toward
‘attracting new resents tothe ity. Census data indicates the population has increased by approximately 500 people
between 2001 and 2011. Between these two census years, Brockvile's largest growth age group was the pre-reirement
‘and earty retirement groups (55-74 fora total of about 1,400. On the other hand, the age group that sieved the largest
ectines was the 25 to 44 year old age group by approximately 1,000. The combined increase ofthe elderly age group
‘and decrease inthe young adult age group has resuited a median age increase from 44.2 yeas in 2001 to 47-1 n 208.

Ifthe Cty wishes to continue to attract a retirement population, whichis normally accompanied by property acquisition
‘and discretionary spending, wil also need to ensure the proper age-tiendly policies and infrastructure arein place to
‘accommodate the growing demographic. On the other hand, Brockville is also faced witha chalenge related tots
ecfning young adutt population, who represent the prime fay producing and career development age group. The age
‘g10up also represents future entrepreneurs and missing sled labour. Brockville is in need ofa youth retention and
‘traction strategy. Simla, immigrant aration can provide growing families, needed sks and entrepreneurship tothe
local economy.

‘This section addresses attraction actions fr retred and semi-retired populations, young professionals and tadespersons,
‘and immigrants. Cental to retired and immigration attraction action fs the leveraging of personal networks of people,
‘atready living in Brockvile to people and groups that are already familar wit the cty. These relationships are based on
‘rust and familiarity wih some ofthe local assets that are appealing to them. This has already been undertaken by
‘ambassadors, and must continue.

9910 2 abe

ee!

FIOURE 11: MUNICIPAL SERVICES ANO GOVERNMENT RELATIONSHIP ACTION AREAS AND RATIONALES

Iter Dickinson Bis roche 2015 Eeanomie Development Stele Directions Updite

9910 £5 abe

FIGURE 12: STRATEGIC ACTIONS FOR MUNICIPAL SERVICES AND GOVERNMENT RELATIONSHPS

ae Te
coreroces | Potent
ion Ava Spec Atos key Ptomance Masses | “fr00" | Paros
1 Fe ean aay
1. Atomal stator eguetoientyapiana |, asta debe cages and
Youth solutions to combating outmigration of young Panne
Neonane | Su portance nessromen soe
young.” |2. inponetettigecomneniatensandmontr| stood fepanan 1. Gre | Kgsonard
oe ona |* nptment ‘acing 8) 2 Coe | Otero
striction | lr edcatonal mattis nna ang | Ieifoneiterteg, 3, Core | Commerce |
strategy Kingston to target professionals and tradespeople | Promotion ofa opportmnit
pps nord ostnes
tren om seven employment cereus cont
_website hits and applicants j
TT Gorn eyo apa wane
Cromer arco banens lege fds | 1. Coactwihanbactdes
famaym oro an ponte occa tetas ot ecieore
opto on oppose un: ended | hada ormaton
Trmgrr wn pron verona pectagee ered com | Community
immigaton | Enare proto nant ee est 2. Giamyeanctvetestn /1 Cow | Commun
unclon” | wnested oy conmantae wee prenay | Awteraystaopy” |2 Soe | Bois
imgoge en econry Enh canola getty | Coe | Sen
1. Unrate an opttandesr saan pututet|  Seegrtan soured
snagetvendy arograton ey 4. Nib natal
2. Marevyenete ta age andy Sesqnatonto | dine scl meta |
tretausene andre nebersfamaton | hathog chee |
| eto -

i
g

‘32 tar Dickinson Bias ~ Broke 2015 Economic Development Strategie Directions Update


‘Core Non-
core Focus | Potentiat
‘Action Area Specie Actions Key Performance Measures | for EDO ners
‘Continue to enty loca champions with networks | 7. Contact wih ambassadors,
‘of former or curent business colleagues, ends or| estates of discussions,
famiy in other cies and promote relocation hhad and information
Retired and ‘options and opportunites to them: target people packages shared te omcore | COMUNAY
‘semiretived looking for change in pace 2. Age-riendiy strategy ter groups focal
attraction Underiake an age-rendiness strategy n pusuitet| completed: age tondy | Noncore | communty

‘an age-tienaly designation forthe Cty
Marketpromote the age-rendly designation to
target audience and include in other information
packages

esignation obtained
‘Number of materials
Aistibuted; socal media
hashtag shares

leaders

Ey

g


Page 56 of 65

December 19, 2016

REPORT TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT & PLANNING COMMITTEE - FEBRUARY
7, 2017

2017-009-02
UPDATE ON AGE FRIENDLY INITIATVE D. PAUL
DIRECTOR OF
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
WHITE
MANAGER STRATEGIC
INITIATIVES

RECOMMENDATION:

THAT Council authorize the staff to apply for grants, specifically the Seniors Community
Grant (SCG) program, the Age Friendly Community Planning Grant (AFCPG) and
‘others as they become available, to allow the continuance of the pursuit ofthe City's
‘Age Friendly designation,

‘THAT the Age Friendly Project Lead continue in an Advisory role on a volunteer basis :
until such time a grantis available;

‘And that the Economic Development department 2017 Work Pian allow for staff time to
assist the Project Lead in securing the Age Friendly designation.

PURPOSE

To request Council authorization to apply for grants related to Age Friendly initiatives
and to allow for staff to assist in this initiative,

BACKGROUND

In 2013, Brockvill's City Council passed a resolution in theory, to support the local AF
initiative for Brockville

‘An age-friendly community (AFC) is a community where policies, services and physical
‘spaces are designed to enable people of all ages to live in a secure and accessible
physical and social environment. AFCs contribute to good health and allow people to
ccontinue to participate fully in society throughout their lifetime,

Page 57 of 65

Report 2017-09-02
Update on Age Friendly initiative

in 2010 the World Healt Organization (WHO) launched the age-friendly movement in
response to the escalating challenges posed by the converging trends of population
aging and urbanization. The WHO mandates that AF initiatives be community-ted
with active participation of older adults, have the support of local government and
collaboration with community stakeholders.

Ontario's population growth rate for people over 65 years is 3.5 times higher than that of
the rest of the population. In response, the Provincial Government has committed to
supporting communities who aim to become more AF in a number of ways including the
development of the Age Friendly Community Planning Guide. The guide is designed to
‘complement the unique and diverse characteristics, needs and wants of Ontario
communities. Today there are over 65 cities and communities in Ontario who have
Committed to being part of the global AF network

1 2014, $36,000 was awarded by the Ontario Seniors Secretariat to employ Project
Lead, Dawn Edgley to execute the first two of four ofthe projects phases. The four
phases include:

1) Defining tocal principles,

2) Custom needs assessment,

3) Developing an action plan

4) Implementation and evaluation stage

To date, the first two phases have been completed. A dedicated and diverse Steering
Committee was established in 2016 and the group's accomplishments include:

‘+ Research to understand the impact of aging in rural Leeds & Grenville and the
impact of City services and amenities.

‘+ Established a website to educate and help the public to become more connected.

‘+ Leveraging existing initiatives and working together to develop new ones that
benefit seniors.

ANALYSIS

‘The 2017 goal for the AF Brockville Steering Committee is to move forward with Phase
‘Three - the development of Brockville's Age Friendly Action Plan in collaboration with
the City of Brockvile.


Page 58 of 65

Report 2017-009-02
Update on Age Friendly Initiative

The Committee is committed to developing an action plan that complements the core
values of the community and prioritizes the needs and wishes of older adults. The role
of the Committee is to focus energies on small or larger initiatives that are realistically
‘appropriate for the short or long term. The Action Plan will be affordable, attainable,
meaningful and measurable.

Brockville's AF Action Plan will be developed using indicators relative to the Key
features of an AF community as identified by the WHO.

Formal approval of the Age-Friendly Brockville Action Plan will be required by the City of
Brockville upon which time Age Friendly Brockville's application to the World Health
Organization will be submitted recognizing Brockville as one of the Worlds Age Friendly
Cities.

Benefits

Everyone benefits in an age-friendly community

‘+ Seniors are supported to age actively, enjoy good health, and remain
independent and involved in their communities.

‘+ People of all ages and abilties benefit from safer, barrier-free buildings and
streets, better access to local businesses and facilites, and more green spaces.

‘+ Businesses benefit from the increased support and spending power of older |
customers, and are better able to support older workers.

+The community benefits from the increased participation of older adults in
community ite |

Communities that adapt age-friendly features become more desirable places to live, to
visit and to spend time. They also reap economic benefits, injecting new vitality into |
local business.

POLICY IMPLICATIONS
As stated in the City’s Official Plan, Brockville ensures that seniors will have a safe and
healthy environment through planning for accessible and affordable housing with
adequate opportunities for education, recreation and arts,

‘Specifically mentioned in the Official Plan:


Page 59 of 65

Report 2017-09-02
Update on Age Friendly Initiative

The City shall encourage the development of low income housing
geared towards seniors, which may include lower maintenance housing
types such as condominiums and townhouses.

‘Aging in-place for seniors shall be encouraged so that:
individuals living in a non-healthcare environment wil have
access to municipal services and amenities so that they may
carry out their daily ife without having to relocate as their
circumstances change; and

ii. where the above is not suitable due to the physical or mental
‘condition ofthe individual, independent living, assisted living
and skiled nursing is to be encouraged in residences for
seniors, such as in @ continuing care retirement community.

Long-term care facilities that meet the needs of the community shall be encouraged.

The Age-Friendly designation contributes to the community credentials and
accreditations. It also strengthens our residential attractionvrelocation initiatives and the
related economic impacts. This factor was duly noted in the 2015 Economic
Development Strategy refresh:

+ Continue to identity ocal champions with networks of former or current business
colleagues, friends or family in other cities and promote relocation options and
‘opportunities fo them; target people looking for a change in pace.

Undertake an age-friendiiness designation forthe City.
‘Market/promote the age-friendly designation fo target audience and includ in
other information packages.

FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS.

To date, the City has been granted $35,000 from the Ontario Seniors’ Secretariat -
Ontario's Action Pian for seniors. This has allowed for the Project Lead to be contracted
for 10 months. Until further funding is secured, the Project Lead will continue with her
role on a volunteer basis. The Manager of Strategic Initiatives will assist with this
initiative when required.

(

Page 60 of 65

Report 2017-009-02
Update on Age Friendly Initiative

‘CONCLUSIONS

Continuing with the Age-Friendly initiative will allow the Steering Committee to continue
with their plans while keeping the momentum as well as solidly the accomplishments to
date.

,
. YB)
Later JUAM
eM eey JAE
Twhie 7 , Paul
Manager Strategic Initiatives Director of Economic
Development
5, Cassetman |

City Manager


Page 61 of 65

BROCKVILLE

| Excerpt from Council Meeting of
December 13, 2016

1. Notice of Motion
Establishment of a Water Advisory Committee
(Councillor Baker)

Councillor Baker is providing notice that the following motion that was
defeated at the FAO meeting of April 19, 2016 will be reconsidered at
the next scheduled meeting of the Economic Development and
Planning Committee:

2016-027-02
Water Advisory Committee
THAT the Finance, Administration and Operations Committee support
the establishment of a Water Advisory Committee with the Terms of
Reference to be developed.

CARRIED

Page 62 of 65

April 14, 2016
REPORT TO FINANCE, ADMIN., AND OPERATIONS COMMITTEE ~ APRIL 19, 2016

2016-027-02 PETER RABE, P.ENG.
WATER ADVISORY DIRECTOR OF ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES
COMMITTEE

RECOMMENDED

THAT Council continues to utilize the existing reporting mechanism and structure for
receiving and reviewing information on the City's water and wastewater systems.

PURPOSE
To determine if additional oversight of the Water Systems Division is necessary.
BACKGROUND

During the 2016 budget process, Councillor Baker requested that City Council discuss
the possibilty of establishing a water oversight/advisory committee.

ANALYSIS/OPTIONS

‘The City currently has a number of mechanisms in-place that not only provides Council
with the information that they require to make informed decisions but also makes sure
that the systems are operated and maintained in an effective and efficient manner.

‘One of the most important mechanisms is the City's Drinking Water Quality
Management System (DWQMS). This system Is used to administer and direct the
‘oversight of the City’s Water System Division. It has been in place since 2009, when
the MOECC required all municipalities that own and operate municipal drinking water
systems, create a Drinking Water Quality Management System ~ Operational Plan as
recommended from Part 2 of the Walkerton Inquiry. The purpose of the quality
‘management approach is to protect public health by achieving consistent good practice
in managing and operating a water system. The hallmarks of this approach include;

+ The adoption of best practices and continual improvement;

—+ Real-time process control;

+ The effective operation of robust mult-barriers to protect health;

— Preventative, rather than strictly reactive, strategies to identify and
‘manage risk to public health, and;

— Effective leadership,

Page 63 of 65

Report 2016-027.02
Water Advisory Committee Page 2

‘The province's Drinking Water Quality Management Standard specifies the minimum
requirements for all drinking water quality management systems in Ontario and includes.
21 defined elements.

‘These 21 elements form the foundation of the City’s DWQMS — Operational Pian
including defining the roles and responsibiities of all those involved, and establishes a
reporting mechanism to ensure knowledgeable and informed decisions are made.

Element 9 “Organizational Structure" of the DWQMS outlines Counci’s role and
responsibilties as the owner of the City’s drinking water system. As such, under the
Safe Drinking Water Act there is statutory standard of care for individuals who have
decision making authority over the drinking water system. There are legal
consequences for not acting as required by the standard of care, including possible
fines or imprisonment. This authority cannot be delegated to a board or commission by
Council and if a board or commission is established, they would also be subject to the
same standard of care as a municipal Council.

Element 20 "Management Reviews" in the plan identifies that management review
‘meetings are to be held at least once a year for the purpose of reporting the status of
the DWQMS to Top Management. The City typically holds two meetings each year,
exceeding the minimum standard. Personnel included in the management review
meetings include the Supervisor of Water Systems, Chief Operator of Water Systems,
Director of Environmental Services, Director of Corporate Services, City Manager, a
‘member of Council and the Mayor. The agenda for the meeting includes, but not limited
to, the following:

List of incidents of regulatory non-compliance and adverse conditions
List of deviations from critical control point limits and response actions

Review of financial capital plan

Rosults and offciency of the risk assessment process

Results of infrastructure review/planning

Results of relevant internal and third party audits

Results of regulatory compliance inspections

Results of emergency response testing

‘Summary of customer complaints

‘Summaryltrending of operational performance

Raw water supply and drinking water quality tronds

= Follow-up and status of action items from previous meetings

+ Summary of Council Meeting minutes pertaining to DWOMS

— Changes in process or management that may affect drinking water quality

— Recommendation from improvernents of the DWOMS

— Changes to Operational Pian

— Any relevant staff suggestions

pigdbedaad

‘The minutes of these meetings are made available to all Council members.

Page 64 of 65

Report 2016-027.02
Water Advisory Committee Page 3

The City’s DWOMS is subject to intemal and remote external audits annually and on-
site external aucits every 3 years. This ensures that the DWQMS is being fully utilized
{as intended and ensures that there are continuous improvements to the document, The
City's last extemal audit was completed in January 2016 where the auditor found the
Citys plan to be in compliance with the standard.

Other DWOMS elements that are reviewed on a continuous basis include infrastructure
maintenance, rehabilitation and renewal, emergency management, and risk
management.

In addition to these DWOMS management system, the Environmental Services
Department prepares quarterly and annual reports for Counci's review. The quarterly
reports keep Committee, Council and the public current with performance and major
‘operational aspects of the water and wastewater systems. The report typically includes
the following:

Water System
= Compliance with Ontario Safe Drinking Water Act and Regulations
= Compliance with the Citys Drinking Water License and Drinking Water

Works Permit

Delails of adverse water quality incidents

Monthiy treated and raw water flows

‘Summary of operational and maintenance work at the various. water

facilities

Updates on the DWOMS

Results of MOECC inspection reports.

Results of regulatory sampling

‘Summary of Elizabethtown-Kitey water system

“+ Summary of water distribution service calls

= Details of watormain breaks

— Status of capital projects

wid

ween!

Wastewater System
+ Summary of operational and maintenance work at various wastewater
facilites
— Summary of by-pass events
— Summary of wastewater collection service calls

(On an annual basis the City is also required to provide reports to the MOECC. These
reports confirm the City’s compliance to provincial regulations and ensure that the
quality of its water meets or exceeds provincial drinking water quality objectives.
Copies of the reports are presented to Council for their review and approval.

Page 65 of 65

Roport 2016-027.02
Water Advisory Committee Pages

The City is also subject to annual inspections by the Ministry of Environment and
Climate ‘Change. These inspections are rather detailed and focus on regulatory
‘compliance rather than operations. Copies of the inspection report are provided to
Council or made available.

‘The City’s annual operating and capital budgets are prepared for the water and
wastewater systoms by Environmental Services Department staff. Projects are
identified and included in the City's ten year roling plan and presented to Council during
budget meetings. The City’s Asset Management Plan is an important tool used by staff
in preparing the budget and is continuously reference during the preparation of the
budget.

POLICY IMPLICATIONS.

‘Ther

10 policy implications.
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS
‘There are no costs at this time.
CONCLUSION

‘The City has in place a comprehensive management system and a number of reporting
mechanisms to Council and the public for its water and wastewater systems. In doing
0, the City ensures that itis able to operate the systems effectively and efficiently. This
is demonstrated by the following:

‘excellent MOECC inspection report results
excellent internal and external DWOMS audit reports results
low water and wastewater rates

positive internal and extemal service delivery reviews

Itis recommended that a Water Advisory Committee not be established and the
reporting structure continues to operate.

PE Raabe, Peng. 8. Casseiman
Director of Environmental Services City Manager

