Page

5-12

Pago 1 of 2

ray Economic Development and
BROCKVILLE Planning Committee
‘ervOF HE ooo SANE Tuesday, September 3, 2013, 5:30 pm.

ity Hall, Council Chambers

Committee Members ‘Aroas of Responsibiliy

Councilor M.Kalivas, Chair Economic Development Economic Development

Councillor J. Baker Planning Advisory Team

Councilor T. Blanchard Chamber of Commerce Museum Board

Councillor M. MeFall DBIA Library Board

Mayor D. Henderson, Heritage Brockville ‘Acts Centre

ExOfficio Tourism
COMMITTEE AGENDA

DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST

DELEGATION(S) AND PRESENTATION(S)
Nil

(CORRESPONDENCE
Nil

‘STAFF REPORTS

1. 2018-10-09
Facade Improvement Grant Program and
Residential or Commercial Conversion/Rehabiltation
Grant Program Uptake

THAT Council receive Report 2013-10-09 for information purposes.

2. 2013-097-09
Revised Policy
City Property Transactions

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee recommend to
Couneil the endorsement on the revised policy of the process associated with
City property transactions inclusive of the revised Purchase of Sale
Agreement.

NEW BUSINESS - REPORT FROM MEMBERS OF COUNCIL
Nil

Pago 2 of 12

Economic Development and Planning Committee
September 3, 2013

CONSENT AGENDA
ADJOURNMENT

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee adjourned its meeting
until the next regular meeting scheduled for October 1, 2013,

Pago 3 of 12

‘27Aug2013
REPORT TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE - 3 SEPT 2013
2013-100-09
FAGADE IMPROVEMENT GRANT PROGRAM AND (M. PASCOE MERKLEY
RESIDENTIAL OR COMMERCIAL CONVERSION! DIRECTOR OF PLANNING
REHABILITATION GRANT PROGRAM UPTAKE ANDREW MCGINNIS
PLANNER Il
RECOMMENDATION:

THAT Council receive Report 2013-100-09 for information purposes.
PURPOSE:

To provide information on the uptake respecting the Fagade Improvement Grant Program
‘as well as the Residential or Commercial Conversion/Rehabiltation Grant Program,

BACKGROUND:

In 2012, City Council revised the Downtown Community Improvement Pian to include two
‘new incentive programs, the Facade Improvement Grant Program as well as the
Residential or Commercial Conversion/Rehabiltation Grant Program. Funding in the
‘amount of $80,000.00 was approved through the 2013 Budget process for implementation.
Information on new programs has been made available by the City in a direct mail out to
downtown property owners, on the City website, through verbal promotion, and in
partnership with the DBIA and Chamber of Commerce.

‘According to the Program Guidelines, applications are to be accepted from February 1*to
May 31" of each year. With each application, an estimate of cost is to be provided for
proposed works. Once the applications are reviewed and deemed complete by staff,
‘actual quotes are needed to be supplied by applicants to refine the estimated grant monies
that would be allocated to each project. For eligible projects, draft Funding Agreements
are prepared, detailing the obligations to be met by the applicant to secure funding,

Upon completion of the work, applicants are to submit details on actual costs via paid
invoices or receipts which willbe used to confirm grants payable. These receipts may or
‘may not change the monies granted to each property (provided the property isnot already
being granted the maximum available).

ANALYSIS

Facade Improvement Grant Program (FIG)

‘The Facade Improvement Grant Program provides the potential for property owners who
Undertake a project, with a minimum overall project cost of $2,000.00, to be eligible for
program assistance of 50% of eligible costs to a maximum grant of $10,000.00 per
property, except for comer properties which may be eligible to receive a grant of up to
‘$20,000.00. The eligible work must improve the facade, or part thereof, ofa building in the
Priority Area 1 through restoration, repair or replacement of various elements of the
facade.


Pago 4 of 2

2013-100-09 Page?
FIG/ RGR Program Uptake

Applications were accepted from February 1" to May 31" of 2013. A total of six (6)
applications were received, five (5) or which have received conditional approval. The five
(6) properties include:

| Address of Property, _ Conditional Grant Amount |

57, 89,91, 93 King Street West | $1480.00 |

32.34 king siret West $4350.00 |

234 King Street West (Comer ot) | $20,000.00 |

(9 & 11 Broad Street $8,846.00

26 King Street West ‘$7,500.00 ]
Residential or Commercial Conversion/Rehabiltation Grant Program (ROCR

‘The program provides for assistance to property owners who undertake a project. with a
{grant equal to 50% of the costs for space rehabilitated up to a maximum $20,000 per
Property.

‘Applications were accepted during the same time frame as the Facade Improvement Grant
Program, from February 1" to May 31° of 2013. A total of two (2) applications were
received and have been granted conditional approval. The two (2) properties are:

‘Address of Property Conditional Grant Amount |
‘90 King Street West $20,000.00
26 King Street West $8,319.00
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS:

Grants payable once work's completed will be based on submission of receipts for eligible
costs, and upon execution of a Funding Agreement between the applicant and the City.

CONCLUSION:
The Facade improvement Grant Program and the Residential or Commercial

Conversion/Rehabilitation Grant Program are new incentives and have contributed to
Increased interest in rehabilitation of our downtown bullding stock.

‘Andrew McGinnis, MCIP, RPP M. Pascoe Merkley, MCIP,
Planner Il Director of Planning
B. Casselman

City Manager

Pago Sof 12

‘August 29, 2013

REPORT TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING COMMITTEE —
September 3, 2013

2013-087-09

REVISED POLICY - CITY PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS DAVID C. PAUL
DIRECTOR OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM

RECOMMENDATION

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee recommend to Council the
endorsement on the revised policy of the process associated with City property
transactions inclusive of the revised Purchase of Sale Agreement.

BACKGROUND
City Property Transactions- Revised Internal Process Policy

‘Transactions That Comply With City Zoning

1. Economic Development Office (EDO) and purchaser agree to all conditions and
covenants associated with the sale/acquisition transaction. The economic
development office will secure completed Form A (note attachment) confirming
details including seller/purchaser’s solicitor and proposed date of closure. Any
‘changes in covenants will require Council approval. Often there are minor
‘changes to the covenants to reflect the nature of the specific industrial
development

2. EDO receives formal agreement of sale from purchaser encompassing points of
agreement in Attachment A, including deposit of a minimum of $1000.00. Copy
of agreement forwarded to City solicitor to ensure conformity to negotiated
agreement and offer advice if required to protect interest of Cty.

3. EDO presents property transaction recommendation to the Economic
Development Planning committee at an closed meeting. City Solicitor may attend
depending on complexity of the subject proposed project. Copy of property
transaction form circulated to Clerk, Lawyer and City Manager.

4, EDO advises the seller/purchaser in two days following EDP meeting on the
acceptance/denial/changes to the earlier agreed recommendation. EDO will
confirm agreement with the client prior to the final submission to council for
ratification.

Pago 6 of 2

2013.097-09
REVISED POLICY - CITY PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS Page 2

5. EDP recommendation on property presented to closed council meeting for
ratification and assuming no changes to the document, proceed to open council
for bylaw approval at next Council meeting.

6. EDO advises client the following day after a council meeting on the outcome of
the recommendation and forwards the letter with attached directive the same day
noting outcome and point of contact being the clerk's office for processing.

7. Clerk's office will respond to Purchasers within two working days following the
‘council meeting acknowledging the transaction and ensuring that all
documentation is forwarded to the City Solcitor's office by Friday.

8. The City Solicitor to initiate the process for closure within five working days of
‘council ratification.

‘Transactions That Do Not Comply With City Zoning

41. The EDO will introduce project concept for review with City Manager, the
Planning Department and City Solicitor and copy to all city departments on
potential impacts, process and additional research or peer review required prior
to introduction to EDP at closed meeting.

2. City may wish to securing external review or research necessary to validate the
appropriateness ofthe proposed project for the community and the alignment to
the community’ strategic direction. Costing of such reviews to be negotiated with
purchaser pending the level and extent of the required assessment.

3. EDO will communicate in a timely manner response to the additional
requirements to ensure business speed considerations to cient's proposed
‘acquisition and development.

4, EDO introduces proposed transaction to EDP at closed meeting with participation
of both Panning and City Solicitor pending on the complexity of the project.

5. Pending favourable consideration by EDP, the process will continue as per the
‘standard city property transaction process with the exception of the required
planning and rezoning requirements for public notice and statutory meetings.

6. The revised covenant will provide the necessary protection for the Council on the

rezoning being considerate of the public inputs and additional assessment as
part of the process.

‘Attachment A: Property Transaction Template for City of Brockville

2013-097-09
REVISED POLICY - CITY PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS Page 3

Pago 7 of 12

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATION

‘There is no direct costing associated with the current recommendation.

Pac

D. Paul D, Dick, CA.
Director of Economic Development Director of Corporate Services
3 Cédeeiman

City Manager

Page 8 of 12

[al

‘The Corporation ofthe
BROCKVILLE city of Brockville Property Transaction
suveR:

REALPROPERTY: §— —iajeqs

the “property’)

[ESTIMATED NUMBER OF ACRES: ‘Acres che mac scree shal be deterines

Shor compan ote eux)
PRICE (PER ACRE): Jscsesee olars (CONS) per acre
PURCHASE PRICE: .. : dollars (CDNS)

DePosir: dollars (CONS)

‘The deposit to be held in rust without interest pending completion or termination of an Agreement of
Purchase and Sale by the Solicitor forthe City of Brockville and to be credited toward the Purchase
Price on completion.

IREVOCABLTY: Ths Me shal be trevocabe by Buyer unl. am om. on te =
+ 20... after which time, if not accepted, this Offer shall be null and void and
the Soci sai be ered isto Buyer mf winou rarest

oupuzTion oATE: The Agreement of Purchase and Sale be completed by no tater than 4:0 pm. on
THE crs CY

(ST: This transaction is subject to Harmonized Sales
Purchase Price

x (H.S..), and shall be in addition to the

‘TILE SEARCH: Buyer shall be allowed unti 6:00 p.m. on the .. day of 120
-- (Requisition Date) to examine the tite to the property at his own expense.

SD ommusorsni: C_>

Page tof

INITIALS OF BUYER(S)


Pago 9 of 12

City of Brockville
Property Transaction

BUYER:

In addition tothe standard conditions applicable to the Ontario Real Estate Associations Agreement of
Purchase and Sale, the Buyer hereby agrees to the folowing additional conditions, where indicated by
Initiating, to be included on Schedule A to the Agreement of Purchase and Sale to be prepared by the

Salctor for the City of Brockville,

1. The Seller takes no responsibilty forthe soils, drainage or requirement for fil to
‘meet the requirements of the Seller forts permitted uses or to comply with any
statute or by-law either municipal, provincial or federal. Further the Seller takes
‘no responsibilty forthe actual existence of rights-of-way, ditches, underground
streams, gas lines, pipelines, of any kind whatsoever or for the necessity to
move or replace any ofthe foregoing or to fil them or otherwise deal wth them,
‘The costs related to the foregoing or the need forthe foregoing or the providing
of any services whatsoever tothe site unless otherwise specifically referred to
herein shall be bome by the Buyer.

‘Schedule A, Clause 1...

inal oajer
2. The Buyer orhishherits Agent warrants that the lands are being purchased for
his ierits own use for industrial purposes and not for speculative purposes.
Schedule A, Ciause 2
nie oye

3, The Seller agrees to secure and provide atthe expense ofthe Buyer, @
registrable description and thee (3) copies ofa plan of survey of the said parcel
prepared by an Ontario Land Surveyor. The description and plan shall show the
‘acreage of the parcel to three (3) decimal points and the purchase price herein
shall be calculated on the basis of such acreage.

‘Schedule A, Ciause 3

4, The deed shall be prepared and registered by the Buyer at his own expense.

‘Schedule A, Clause 4
inal oijer

5, The Buyer shall ensure that the gross floor area of the building(s) to be
constructed on the subject lands within one (1) year of the date of closing
‘comprises at least twenty-five percent (25%) of the developable area of the

‘subject ands.
Schedule A, Clause 5.

wusorevrensy > amuisor sewer © >

a ~ Page 20f 5

Page 10 of 12
City of Brookville
Property Transaction

BUYER:

6. The Buyer agrees that the Seller shall have the right to repurchase the property
‘at ninety percent (80%) ofthe original purchase price within one (1) year ofthe
date of closing and at eighty percent (80%) ofthe original purchase price within
‘wo (2) years from the date of closing should a development project not proceed.

‘The Buyer shall forthwith re-convey the subject lands to the Seller free and clear
ofall encumbrances, including all mortgages and liens. The Buyer shall secure

and register such Discharges and Releases as are required at his own expense
‘and shall forthwith deliver vacant possession of the subject lands tothe Seller.

‘This right and option shall be exercised by letter delivered personally or by
registered mail by the Seller to the Buyer after the expiration ofthe one (1) year
‘or two (2) year period

Schedule A, Clause 6 ....
Ini oie

7. The Buyer agrees thatthe Seller shall have first right of refusal to repurchase any
‘surplus vacant portion of the property at market value fora period of three (3)
years from the date of closing, prior to the Buyer offering such surplus vacant
Portion of the property to any other persons.

‘The Buyer shall forthwith re-convey the subject lands tothe Seller free and clear
‘fall encumbrances, including all mortgages and liens, The Buyer shall secure
and register such Discharges and Releases as are required at his own expense
‘and shall forthwith deliver vacant possession of the subject lands to the Seller,
‘This right and option shall be exercised by letter delivered personally or by
registered mall by the Seller to the Buyer after the expiration of the three (3) year
petiog.

‘Schedule A, Ciause 7

D mtr D>

Page 3.0f5

Page 11 of 12
City of Brockville
Property Transaction

BUYER:

8. The Buyer covenants and agrees that the folowing restrictions and covenants
‘shall apply to and be binding upon the Buyer, is or ts heirs, executors,
administrators, successors, and assigns and subject to the provision of this
paragraph contained, the said restrictions and covenants shall run with the land.

Schedule A, Clause 8...

9. The parties acknowledge that if rezoning Is required the Agreement of Purchase and
‘Sale is conditional upon the rezoning of subject lands. The City can use its unfettered
discretion to approve or not approve the rezoning of the subject lands.

‘Scheudle A, Clause 9
By signing this document the Buyer hereby agrees that conditions as agreed upon inthis

‘document shall be included in the Agreement of Purchase and Sale to be prepared by the Solicitor for
the Corporation of the City of Brockville

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Buyer has hereunto set its hand and seal this day of
20
‘SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED Buyer
Inthe presence of ,
)
) Per
)
)
Per:

‘The Corporation of the City of Brockville

Per:
David C. Paul
Director of Economic Development

Page 4 0f5

Page 1201 12

City of Brookville
Property Transaction

BUYER) soc

verusoreunne: © amisorseusn C_>

Page 5 of 5


