Page

Page 1 of 16

Economic Development and

Planning Committee
Tuesday, September 5, 2017, 6:00 pm

City Hall, Council Chambers

Committee Members ‘Areas of Responsibility
Councillor D. LeSueur, Economic Development Economic Development
Chair Planning ‘Advisory Team
Councillor 3. Baker Chamber of Commerce Museum Board
Councillor 3. Earle DBIA Library Board
Councillor M. Kalivas Heritage Brockville Arts Centre
Mayor D. Henderson, Ex- Tourism
Officio

PUBLIC MEETING

AGENDA

Report

1. 2017-090-09
Proposed General Amendments to
Zoning By-law 050-2014
City of Brockville

THAT Report 2017-090-09 be received as information and that a
report including a final housekeeping amendment by-law on this
‘matter be prepared by Staff for consideration of the Economic
Development Planning Committee at a future meeting.

Page 2 of 16

30Aug2017
REPORT TO THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE - PUBLIC
MEETING 5 SEPT 2017

2017-090-09
PROPOSED GENERAL AMENDMENTS D. DICK
TO ZONING BY-LAW 050-2014 DIRECTOR OF PLANNING (Acting)
CITY OF BROCKVILLE ANDREW MCGINNIS
FILE: D14-023,as0.2014 PLANNER I

RECOMMENDATION

THAT Report 2017-090-09 be received as information and that a report including a final
housekeeping amendment by-law on this matter be prepared by Staff for consideration
of the Economic Development Planning Committee at a future meeting,

PURPOSE

To provide information for purposes of conducting a Public Meeting under the Planning
‘Act respecting a General Housekeeping Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law
050-2014,

BACKGROUND

Staff regularly undertakes a review of issues raised through the usage of the City’s
Comprehensive Zoning By-law. The frequency of such review ensures the continued
effectiveness of the by-law to regulate land use and development within the City, and
provides an opportunity to incorporate new policy directions and/or legislative
requirements when necessary.

Staff recommends that a series of housekeeping matters relating to missediwrong
references, interpretation issues, and suggestions from departments, agencies and
public over the past years, be addressed at this time.

Since Zoning By-law 050-2014 was passed (10 June 2014), Staff have been actively
reviewing zoning provisions, definitions and setback requirements as well as monitoring
the general usage of the by-law and are now in a position to recommend changes be
brought forward where the effectiveness of the By-law is affected.

ANALYSIS

It is staff's opinion that to ensure continued effectiveness of the City’s current Zoning
By-law, it is necessary to address a number of issues and make improvements and

Page 8 of 16
2017.990-08 Page?
Public Mlootng - Proposed General Amendment to Zoning By-Law 050-2014
File: D14.0239m cn

Clarifications to the provisions of the Zoning By-law for ease of interpretation and
implementation.

‘The proposed housekeeping amendment addresses issues resulting from multiple
supported variances/previous amendments, matters of interpretation, and suggestions
received from departments, agencies and the public over the past three (3) years. More
specifically, the proposed amendments include, but are not limited to, the following
topics:

+ Technical revisions (granting staff authority to make minor changes that do not
‘change the intent ofthe by-law or any provision contained within (e.
‘grammatical, map/schedule changes, etc))

+ Definitions (additions of new definitions, amendments to current definitions and
amendments fo incorrect references.

Apartment units in Commercial and Mixed Use Zones.

Fencing

Home Industries/Home Occupations (Prohibited Uses)

Legal non-conforming uses and legal non-complying buildings and structures

Parking Area requirements

Seasonal Uses

Setback requirements and permitted encroachments,

Lot and Building Requirements for Residential Zones,

Permitted Uses in Commercial and Mixed Use Zones

Permitted Uses in Non-Residential and Non-Commercial Zones

Site-specific Zones throughout the by-law that are missing or affected by other

revisions proposed in the housekeeping amendment,

‘The specific details of the draft housekeeping amendments and accompanying rationale
thas been described in table format in Schedule “A” to this report

Issues for Discussion:

1. Appropriateness of the delegation of authority to staff for technical revi

2. Appropriateness of the proposed amendments,

3. Additional revisions Members of the EDP Committee would like staff to review, if
any.

POLICY IMPLICATIONS

‘The contents of this report are provided for information purposes for the Public Meeting,
Following the Public Meeting, Planning Department Staff will prepare a report which will
include review and consideration of policies that are relevant to the requested
amendment.


Page 4 of 16
2017-090-09 Page 3
Public Mating - Proposed General Amondment to Zoning By-Law 050-2014
File: D14023tean0

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS

None,

CONCLUSION

‘A Report on this matter, including a detailed analysis of the proposed amendments and
consideration of the issues raised at the Public Meeting and a recommendation from
Planning Staff, will be prepared for consideration of the Economic Development
Planning Committee at a future meeting.

D.Dick, CPA, CA GMeGinnis, MCIP, RPP, Dipl MM,
Director of Planning (Acting), and Planner Il
Director of Corporate Services

a

City Manager

SCHEDULE “A” TO REPORT 2017-090-09

SECTION

PROPOSED AMENDMENT

REASON/EXPLANATION

Section 1.0
Interpretation, Administration and
Enforcement, Subsection 1.6 ~
Interpretation of Schedules "A" and
"BY, Sub-section ev}

Repeal inits entirety and replace with the following:

"V}___ Where an intermittent street frontage and minimum ground
floor height are shown to apply to @lttine ora portion ofa lot line the
provisions of Subsection 3.22 and Subsection 3.27 shall apply to that
Portion ofthe ot line. Where the intermittent street frontage and
minimum ground floor height are shown to apply to a portion of alot
line on alot, the applicability shal be scaled from the map."

Due to an improper reference whereas
Subsection 3.12 was referred, and reference
shouldbe made to 3.22.

Section L0—
Interpretation, Administration and
Enforcement

‘Add a new section “Technical Revisions” at subsection 1.10 to read the
following:

"1.40 Technical Revisions
Revisions may be made to this by-law without the need fora zoning
amendment in the following cases:

4) correction of grammar, punctuation or typographical errors or
revisions to format in a manner that does not change the intent of
8 provision;

'b)_ adding or revising technical information on maps or schedules that
does not affect the zoning of lands Including, but not limited to,
matters such as updating and correcting. Infrastructure
information, keys, legends or title blocks; and

)_ changes to” appendices, footnotes, headings, indies, marginal
notes, tables of contents, illustrations, historical or reference
Information, page numbering, footers and headers, which do not
form 2 part of this by-law and are editorially inserted for
convenience of reference onl

| By addition the proposed section, this wll
| permit staff to make minor technical changes

(as needed) to the Bylaw without the need for
a zoning amendment process.

The changes that could be made without
Council approval will not change the intent or
‘irection of the By aw.

Section 20—
Definitions

‘Add definition for “Computer Design and Development Facility”.

‘ald definition to read as follows:
"62. Computer Design and Development Faclty, means a company
‘whose primary business activities ae associated with technology
industry which includes computer hardware, software electronics,
‘semiconductor, internet, telecom equipment, e-commerce and
computer services”

Curentiy the Bylaw has no definition for this
typeof use.

9b 0S 8683

SECTION

‘PROPOSED AMENDMENT

'REASON/EXPLANATION

“Section 2.0-
Definitions

Section 20>
Definitions

Repeal inits entirety and replace, "Day Care, rivate-Home™ with the
following:

°73. Day Care, rvate-Home, means.a place wherein the temporary
care of children is provided and is operated as an accessory use within a
‘residential dwelling in accordance and licensed under the Child Care
and Early Years Act, as amended, or any other applicable Provincial
legislation, and in accordance with the provisions for home occupations
In Subsection 3.24."

‘The "Day Nurseries Act” has been repealed and
‘eplaced with the “ChildCare and Early Years
“Act” Change isrequited to reference the
current Act.

Replace heading for definition of “Day Nursery” with “Child Care
Centre.” Definition to remain the same,

Replace all references to “Day Nursery" with "Child Care Centre.”

“The "Day Nurseries Act” has been repealed and
replaced with the “Child Core and Early Years
“Act.” The Bylaw had previously referred to 2
“Day Nursery” to describe a licenced child care
facility; however, the terminology Is no longer
Accurate since the new leisation uses the term
Child Care Centre.” Note also the general
amendment replaces every occurrence ofthe
term "Day Nursery” in the By-law with “Child
Care Centre.”

Section 20—
Definitions

| Section 20—
Definitions

Repeal nits entirety and replace “Lot Line, Front” with the folowing:

“151. Lot Line, Front, means inthe case ofan interior lot, the line
<ivging the ot from the street. Inthe case of a corner lot abutting two
(2) or more street tines, the shorter lot line abutting a street shall be
deemed the front lot line andthe longer lt lin abutting a street shall
bbe deemed an exterior side ot ine. Inthe case ofa through lat, ora
corner lot whose exterior lot lines are the same length, the ot line
here the principal access to the lt is provided shall be deemed to be
the front lt tine.”

This amendment is proposed due to the
adeition of "or more" to the reference.
Currently there sno reference toa lot having
frontages on more than two streets.

‘Add the folowing definition for “Medical Laboratory"

"163. Medical/Dental Laboratory” means a building, or part thereof,
used for medical and/or dental testing, medical and/or dental
experimentation and medical and/or dental research.”

| Currently the By-law has no definition for is
| ype of use.

or east

PROPOSED AMENDMENT

266. Yacht Club, means a cub organized to promote and regulate
yachting and boating.”

‘SECTION REASON EXPLANATION
“Section 2.0— Repeal nits entirety and replace, “Public Use” withthe following Proposed addition of "or public” to the
Definitions reference.

"197. Public Use, means any essential or public service or utility

‘untied in Subsection 3.38 of this By aw.”
‘Section 20~ ‘Add the following definition for "Rowing Chub": ‘Currently the By-law has no definition for this |
Definitions type of us.

"209. Rowing Club, means a club for people to take partin the activity

Cr sport of rowing or paddling,”
‘Section 20— ‘Add the following definition for “Street Ege" “The Bylaw refers to "Street Edge” in multiple
Definitions locations, but has no definition. Definition is

"236. Street Edge, means the point at where a front lot ine meets the | being added for clarification

street line.”
‘Section 20= Repeal in ts entirety and replace “Wansportation Terminal” with the | Removes the reference to “or land from the
Definitions follow definition. The new definition removes the

ability to havea transportation terminal on a

"250. Transportation Terminal, means a building or structure which is | parcel of land without a main building

used for loading or unloading of trucks, or where trucks, transports or

buses are stored, rented, leased, kept for hie, parked or repaired on

‘the propery, or ae dispatched for hie as common carriers, or which is

‘a bonded or suferance warehouse.” |
Seation 20 ‘Add the folowing definition for Vehicle Length "The Bylaw refers to “Vehicle Lengt Ta
Definitions multiple locations but has no definition. This is

"258. Vehicle Length, means the horizontal length ofa vehicle, being added for clarification

motorized or other, measured from the longest point, incding the

tongue and bumper.”
Secion20= ‘Add the following definition "Vacht Cub" “Currently the By-law has no definition for this
Definitions type of use.

ere 7 ebeg


SECTION

PROPOSED AMENDMENT

REASON/EXPLANATION

“Section 3.0-
General Provisions, Subsection 3.6 ~
‘Apartment units in commercial and
‘mixed use Zones, d)

Section 30—
General Provisions, Subsection 3.16,
=Fences, i) andi),

‘Amend by adding the folowing to existing line of text “In a Commercal
Zone." Said provision should read as follows:

“d) Apartment units shall not exceed 100.0 percent ofthe gros floor
area of the non-residential use in a Commercial Zone.”

‘Currently this regulation does not allow any
bulldng in a mixed use zone (Downtown, 1000
Islands Mall, former Zellers Mal) o have more
than 300.0 percent ofthe commercial space
eveloped for residential

Repeal in its entirety and replace with the following:
") Fences, walls, or hedgerows described herein shall be measured
from grade, and said height shall be inclusive of lattice or other fence
toppers.

1) Fences or walls constructed in any side or rear yar in any Residential
Zone shall be limited to a height of 2.0 metres. This includes fences or
‘walls constructed on or around a deck or patio. For fences constructed
‘on a deck, height is measured from the top of deck.”

Proposed inorder to help Teclfate the height fF
fences and/or walls on a deck. Currently the
By-law does not address these matters,

Section 30-
General Provisions, Subsection 3.20
Home Industries

Section 30.
Genera Provisions, Subsection 3.21,
—Home Occupations) Exception

‘Add new subsedton:
"1 Prohibited Uses

‘Without limiting the generality or applicability ofthe provisions for
home industries under clause 3.20 the following uses shall not be
considered home industries:

|. Automotive repair or automative trade use exceeding one
(2) service bay measuring a maximum of 150.0 m*.

Painting of vehicles, trailers or boats exceeding one (2)
service bay 150.0 m.

Arcade

Iv. Outside storage associated to the home industry.”

‘The Bylaw does not preclude any uses from
being a "Home industry." The proposed
audition of Profibited Uses to the "Home
Industry” section wil align the uses with the
"Home Occupation” regulations.

| Repeatin is entirety and replace with the folowing

“A ptivate home day care or babysitting service may be established asa
home occupation, and shallot be restricted by subclauses 3.21b)})
and vik”

‘Proposed due toa typographical error which
limited the “Private Home Daycare” to two (2)
liens.

or eesbeg


section

PROPOSED AMENDMENT

REASON/EXPLANATION

Section 3.0-

GGeneral-Provisions, Subsection 3.22

| —Home occupations, ¢) Prohibited
Uses, 3)

“Section 30—
Genera Provisions, Subsection 3.23
= Legal non-conforming uses and
legel non-complyng buildings and
structures, g)

Section 30=
{General Provisions, Subsection 3.33
Parking Area Requirements, 3)
Minimum Number of Parking Spaces,
‘able 3.33(): Parking Requirements
for Commercial and Mixed Uses —
Industrial Equipment Sales, Service
and Rental or industrial and/or
Automotive Supply.

Renumber as follows:

x) arcade,

Tepealinits entirety and replace with the folowing:

“g) to prevent the repair of legal non-conforming uses, provided their
dimensions (height, size and volume) are not increased.

1h) A nonconforming building destroyed by any means beyond the
control ofthe owner may be replaced and rebuilt to the same extent In
Its former location provided that construction is commenced within one
year from the date of destruction and provided that the building is
completed within a reasonable time thereafter. The Chief Building
Official shall have rogard for the clear intent of the Owner to
reconstruct the damaged building in considering the issuance of a
Building Permit in accordance with the aforementioned requirements”

Proposed due toa typographical error.
“arcade” was under "s)” not “).”

“The Bylaw currently allows the reconstruction

‘of non-conforming uses. Staf believe that this
reference should only permit legal non-
conforming uses to be reconstructed for a
limited timeframe as it isthe intent to remove
non-conforming. uses from properties around
the city and gain compliance.

Repeal in its entirety and replace with the following:

"3.0 spaces per 100.0 square metres gros leasable area.”

Proposed change is rom 50 spaces t 30
spaces.

Staff have determined through review of
projects with this use that 5.0 parking spaces
being required is excessive, Most ofthese
faclties have large buildings for storage of thelr
equipment.

or eat


‘SECTION

PROPOSED AMENDMENT

REASON/EXPLANATION

“Section 3.0-
General Provisions, Subsection 3.33,
= Parking Area Requirements
Minimum Number of Parking Spaces,
ii) Designation of Parking for
Persons with Disabilities

Section 30—
Genera Provisions, Subsection 3.33
= Parking Area Requirements, b)
Parking Space, Area and Driveway
Requirements») Parking Area
Location, 2 Location of Parking
Areas in Residential Zones, a. and b

Repeal nits entirety and replace with the folowing:
1. a. Where a new residential bulding or an addition to an existing
residential building must be barrier fee in accordance withthe Bulging
Code Act and its regulations, one (2) parking space, with a width of not
less than 3.5 metres, shall be provided atthe rate of one (1) space for
‘every ity (50) parking spaces required to be provided by this Bylaw.

41. b. Where a new building or an addition to an existing bulding must
be barrier free in accordance with the Building Code Act and its
regulations, the folowing chart will aply to barrier-free parking spaces.
ach required space must have a minimum width of not less than 3.5.
meres,

Tal rane of paring mpacesin Total numberof ces paring
parking fay or pubic use spaces requed
306, 6
7101200, Ber
201006 Beez
i “003+ Teen

Proposed addition in order to bring the Zoning
By-law into conformity with the Accessibilty for
‘Ontarians with Disabilities Act.

‘Repeal and replace with the following!

“a, Parking areas shall be permitted in any yard except inthe exterior
side yard, Parking areas shall only be permitted in the front yard in
‘accordance with subparagraph 3.33 b v)2.. below, Parking shal be
limited to a driveway or parking area designed and located in
accordance with the provisions of section 3.33."

“b, Notwithstanding anything tothe contrary inthis subsection, any
residential driveway may be used for parking purposes, provided that it
shall lead to another legal parking space, garage, or carport. An
additional parking area which doesnot lead to a legal parking space,
garage or carport, may be provided ina front yard parallel tothe
ebisting legal parking space or driveway to accommodate the parking of
vehicles, provided thatthe total with ofall driveways) or parking
‘areas does not exceed the lesser of 9.0 metres oF $0.0 percent ofthe
width of the tot."

"The regulation permits driveways to be used for
stacking of the required spaces, Currently
stacking ina ow) isnot permitted.

In addition, the By-law allows driveways larger
than 9.0 metres as itis based on each unit. An
‘example ofthis would be fora tr-piex. tf tr-
plex had significant frontage, a driveway could
be put in that measured 27.0 metres

The reference to “for each unit” has been
| removed and now limits the driveway width to

the lesser of 9.0 metres or 50.0 percent of the
width ofthe lot.

9b 10 01 abea

‘SECTION.

‘PROPOSED AMENDMENT

[REASON/EXPLANATION

Section 3.0-
General Provisions, Subsection 3.40
= Seasonal Uses

| Section 30—
General Provisions, Subsection 3.46
‘= Through Lots and Comer Lots, b)
Corner Lot

“Add the Following tothe existing lit of provisions:

*f) Seasonal use(s shall not occupy more than 25% of the required
parking forthe entire property and shallot cover any portion of @
required barrier-free space(s.”

Currently the By-law does not regulate the size
of a seasonal use. The proposed percentage
il give merchants ample space for their sale
area and maintain a sufficient amount of
parking spaces for customers.

‘Add the following pictorial reference to Section 30, Subsection 3.46.6)

‘The By-law currently portrays a pictorial
representation of a comer lt with frontage on
‘two (2) streets; however, the text inthis section
‘described a lot having front on more than two
streets. Staff proposes the pleture (left) be
added for cacifieation.

Section 30—
General Provisions, Subsection 3.51
Yard, Setback and Height
Encroachments Permitted, ¢)

| Section 30=

General Provisions, Subsection 3.51
= Yar, Setback and Height
Encroachments Permitted) ) and
”

‘Repeal and replace heading of “Covered or Uncovered Porches, Steps
and Decks” with the following heading

“Unenclosed Porches, Steps and Decks”

‘Staff are proposing the change described in
‘order to remove the possibility of an addition to
a home encroaching in to a required yard as
porches, steps and decks can encroach in
‘comparison toa dwelling

| Repealin their entirety and replace with the followings

“v) Uncovered decks may projet into any required front or exterior
side yard a distance of not more than 1.5 metres provided sald
structure is not higher than 4.0 metres from grade."

“v) Uncovered decks may project a maximum of 3.75 metres into the
required rear yard, provided said structure snot higher than 1.5 metres
from grade."

The addltion of “uncovered” to each of the
‘headings i to implement the changes proposed
In the heading of Section 3.0 ~ General
Provisions, Subsection 3.51 ~ Yard, Setback and
Height Encroachment Permited,g)

9 OT abeS


SECTION

PROPOSED AMENDMENT

REASON/EXPLANATION

Section 3.0—
{General Provisions, Subsection 3.52
= Yard, Setback and Height
EncroachmentsPermited,g), Vi)

Repeal inits entirety.

Proposed to be removed as this is a typo. eis®
repeat ofa portion of clause 3.51 g) i)

Section 5.0—
Residential Zones, Subsection 5.2 ~
Lot and Building Requirements, table
5.2{b}: Lot and Building
Requirements for Residential
General Zones, Minimum Lot
Frontage under heading R3 and R3A,

‘Repeal reference to Street Townhouse Dwelling of 6.0 m per unit, plus
3.0m for exterior lots” and replace with “not permitted.”

Remave the reference to Street Townhouse

Dwelling asthe use should not be permitted
within the R3 ~ General Residential Zane and
the RBA General Residential Zone,

Section 0~
Residential Zones, Subsection 5.2 ~
Lot and 6

5.2(b) Lot and Building
Requirements for Residential ~
General Zones, Minimum Lot
Frontage under heading RB and R3A

[Section s0=
Residential Zones, Subsection §.2~
Lot and Bulding Requirements, table
5.2{b|: Lot and Building
Requirements for Residential ~
General Zones, Minimum Lot Area
under heading 83 and R3A

ing Requirements, table |

Repeal reference to Townhouse Dwelling of "30.0 mand replace with
“not permitted.”

Remove the reference to Townhouse Dwelling
asthe use should not be permitted within the
3 ~ General Residential Zone and the R3A—
General Residential Zone,

Repeal reference to Street Townhouse Dwelling oF "180.0 m2" and
replace with “not permitted.”

Remove the reference to Street Townhouse
Dwelling as the use should not be permitted
‘within the R3 ~ General Residential Zone and
‘the RIA General Residential Zone.

Section 50=
Residential Zones, Subsection 5.2 ~
Lot and Building Requirements, table
5.2{0}: Lot and Building
Requirements for Residential ~
General Zones, Minimum Lot Area
Under heading R3 and R3A

‘Repeal reference to Townhouse Dwelling of "180.0 m2 per unit” and
replace with “not permitted.”

Tiemove the reference to Townhouse Dweling
2 the use should not be permitted within the
3 —General Residential Zone and the R3A~
General Residential Zone,

or ear aba


‘SECTION

PROPOSED AMENDMENT

[REASON/EXPLANATION

Section 5.0—
Residential Zones, Subsection 5.2 —
Lot and Building Requirements, table
5.2(b): Lot and Building
Requirements fo Residential ~
General Zones, Minimum Lot
Frontage

Tnder heading “Use” add “Linked Dwelling” tothe subheading “Semi-
Detached Dwelling, Duplex Dwelling.”

‘Adds the permitted use of a Linked Dweling
the zone provision chart. it was missed in the
intial implementation but isa permitted use
Under Table 5.1 “Permitted Uses.”

Section 50-
Residential Zones, Subsection 5.2 —
Lot and Building Requirements, table
5.2(b}: Lot and Building
Requirements for Residential ~
General Zones, Minimum Lot Area

‘inder heading “Use” add “Unked Dwelling” tothe subheading “Semi
Detached Oweling, Duplex Dwelling.”

‘Adds the permitted use ofa Linked Dwelling
the zone provision chart. tt was missed in the
Initial implementation but isa permitted use
Under Table 5.1 “Permitted Uses.”

Section S0—
Residential Zones, Subsection 5.2 ~
Lot and Building Requirements, table
5.26}: Lot and Building
Requirements for Residential
‘General Zones, Minimum Front Yard

Under heading “Use,” subheading “All uses except Converted Dwellings
‘and Maisonette Dwellings," repeal and replace "8.0 m" with "6.0m"
under the *Ra” heading.

‘Bue to typographical erors that staffhave
found while reviewing the document.

Section 50—
Residential Zones, Subsection .2—
Lot and Building Requirements, table
5.2(6: Lot and Building
Requirements for Residential
‘General Zones, Minimum Exterior
Side Yard

Under heading “Use,” subheading “Malsonette Dwelings/" repeal and
replace “8.0 "with "6.0 m* under the “Ré” heading

‘Due to typographical erors that Safhave
found while reviewing the document.

Section 5.0—
Residential Zones, Subsection 5.2 ~
Lot and Building Requirements, table
5.2(¢: Lot and Building
Requirements for Residential
“Multiple Zones, Minimum Interior
Side Yard

‘Aad footnote ("Fp

Being amended to recognize that “Townhouse
Dwelling or Street Townhouse Dwelling” can
hhave a common wall that requires no interior
side yard

eb ieereoey


[—seeriow

PROPOSED AMENDMENT

REASON/EXPLANATION,

Section 5.0—
Residential ones, Subsection 5.2 ~
Lot and Bulding Requirements, table
5.2(¢: Lot and Building
Requirements for Residential ~
Multiple Zones

“Add new footnate “() an interior side yard shal not be required where
<éweling units share a common wal.”

Being amended to recognize that “Townhouse
Dwelling or Street Townhouse Dwelling” can
hhave a common wall that requires no interior
side yard

Section 50=
Residential Zones, Subsection 5.3 ~
Residential Special Exception Zones
5.3.4.9 R3-9 Zone,

“Section 50—
Residential Zones, Subsection 5.3 ~
Residential Special Exception Zones ~
5.3.2.2 R9-2 Zone, heading
"5.3.2.2 R9-2 Zone (119 Water |
Street West) |

‘da the folowing:
"5.3.4.9 73-9 Zone (Lots 7,8 and 9, Part of Lots Sand 6, Block 3, Plan,
67; 72,74, 76 and 78 Murray Street) Amending Bylaw 020-2014

‘The uses permitted inthe R3-X2-1 Zone shal be those permitted inthe
3-General Residential Zone.

‘The zone provisions forthe R3-X3-1 Zone shal be the same a fr the
3.General Residential Zone, save and except for the following:

iaimoniarars[ 2nd | 200m | amg [358503 —]
mum ior | emery | 3m 30m Tam
Ssevwctase |

Required to be inserted into Zoning Bylaw 050-
2014 as By aw 020-2014 was passed prior to

the implementation of Zoning By-Jaw 050-2014
and was not inserted inthe previous Zoning 8y-
law 19494 in order tobe caried over correctly

Repeal and replace with the following:

"5.3.12.2 R9-2 Zone (80 Henry Street)”

Section 5.0—
Residential Zones, Subsection 5.3 |
Residential Special Exception Zones ~
5..12.3 R9-3 Zone (Wall Street
Vilage ~ Wall treet, James Street
and Victoria Avenue) Amending By:
law 056-2015,

Repeal and replace the reference to "R97 Zone” with "R9-3 Zone”

Correction ofthe municipal address associated
with the property.

Reference to the wrong zone was quoted.

Pr 306g


~secrion ~

PROPOSED AMENDNIENT

'REASON/EXPLANATION

“Section 5.0—
Residential Zones, Subsection 5.3 ~
Residential Special Exception Zones,

Repeal Section “5.3.12.4T-R9-4 Zone (South east Corner of ames
Street East and Victoria Avenue)’ i ts entirety and renumber following
sections accordingly.

Zoning has expired and is now the site of Wall
Street Village. Removing it from the By-law isa
‘eneral housekeeping matter.

Section 60=
‘Commercial and Mixed Use Zones,
Subsection 6.1 ~ Permitted Uses,
Table 6.1: Permitted Uses in
Commercial and Miked Use Zones

‘Under the Reading “Use, subheading "Assembly HalP, add" for
permitted use within the “MC” Mixed Use and Commercial Zone.

“The above permits an “Assembly Hal” on
properties zoned “MC.” This includes the 1000
Islands Mall and the former Zellers Mall

‘Section 60=
‘Commercial and Mixed Use Zones,
Subsection 6.1-Permitted Uses,
Table 6.1 Permitted Uses in
‘Commercial and Mixed Use Zones

‘Under the Reading "Use, add “Community Centre” asa permitted use
‘and permit the use nal Commercial and Mlsed Use Zones by adding
“under all sub-headings: MD, MW, MC, C1, €2(2),C3(2), C4 C5,
C643).

‘The Zoning By-law defines a “Community
Centre," but does not permit in any
Commercial or Mixed Use Zones, This was
missed during the initial implementation of the
By-law in 2014,

Section 60—
‘Commercial and Mixed Use Zones,
Subsection 6.1 ~Permitted Uses,
Table 6.1: Permitted Uses in
‘Commercial and Mixed Use Zones

Under the heading “Use, subheading “Home improvement Store’,
delete reference to footnote (3) within the C5 Power Centre Zone.

‘The deletion ofthe footnate reference removes
the “Home Improvement Store” from the reall
‘ap regulations currently within the C5 ~ Power
Centre Zone. "Home Depot” was not to be
included inthis cap.

Section 60=
Commercial and Mixed Use Zones,
Subsection 6.1 ~ Permitted Uses,
Table 6.1: Permitted Uses in
Commercial and Mixed Use Zones

‘Under the heading “Use,” repeal the heading "Medical Laboratory” and
replace with the heading “Medical/Dental Laboratory.”

"There was never a definition for "Medical
Laboratory,” but tis a permitted use in multiple
zones, Staff are proposing to also add “Dental”
to the new definition

Section 60—
‘Commercial and Mixed Use Zones,
Subsection 6.2~Lot and Building
Requirements, Table 6.2(b) ot and
Building Requirements for
‘Commercial and Mixed Use Zones,
Maximum Building Height

Under headings MD and MW, be amended to reference “Seclion 3.5"
rather than “Section 3.6."

Reference is being made to Section 36
"Apartment Units in Commercial and Mised Use
Zones" rather than the correct section, Section
13.5 “Angular Planes.”

ere ST abs


SECTION

‘PROPOSED AMENDMENT

REASON/EXPLANATION

Section 7.0—
Non-Residential and Non-
Commercial Zones, Subsection 7.1
Permitted Uses, Table 7.1: Permitted
Uses in Non-Residential and Non-
Commercial Zones

Under heading “Use,” “Community Centres,” subheading "2,"
adax?

Wilfalow a Community Centre asa permitted
use within the I2St. Lawrence College/Special
Education Zone, Currently itis net a permitted
use and was missed when By-law 050-2014 was
presented to Council.

Section 7.0—
Non Residential and Non-
‘Commercial Zones, Subsection 7.1—
Permitted Uses, Table 7.1: Permitted
Uses in Non-Residential and Non-
Commercial Zones

| Under heading "Use", add “Park (Private/Public) to permit the use
under the "OS" heading by adding an "X."

“The way the Bylaw currentiy reads does not
permit "Parks (Public/Private) inthe “OS”
Open Space Zone.

Seation7.0=
Non-Residential and Non-
Commercial Zones, Subsection 7.3 ~
Non-Residential & Non-Commercial
Special Exception Zones

‘Amend subsection 73.52 053 Zone (islands) to read "7353 083
Zone (\slands)”

‘Typographical eror

91 10.94 9604


