Page

Page 1 of 80

ray Economic Development and
BROCKVILLE Planning Committee
‘ervOF HE ooo SANE Tuesday, February 4, 2014, 4:45 pm

Gity Hall, Council Chambers

Committee Members ‘Aroas of Responsibiliy

Councilor M. McFall, Chair Economic Development Economic Development

Councillor D. Beatty Planning Advisory Team

Councillor M. Kalivas Chamber of Commerce ‘Museum Board

Couneillor D. LeSueur DBIA Library Board

Mayor D. Henderson, Heritage Brockville ‘Acts Centre

ExOfficio Tourism
COMMITTEE AGENDA

MOTION TO MOVE INTO CLOSED SESSION (4:30 pm)

THAT pursuant to Municipal Act, 2001, Section 239, Sub. 2, (), the Committee
resolve itself into Closed Session to consider:

1. a proposed or pending acquisition or disposition of land by the municipality or
local board:

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE FROM CLOSED SESSION

THAT the EDP Committee rise from Closed Session and the Chairman report that
all recommendation(s) adopted in Closed Session, be adopted.

DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST
DELEGATION(S) AND PRESENTATION(S)
1. Innovation Centre

Mr. Michael Mann, CEO, Launch Labs will address the Committee regarding
innovation centres.

67-75

76-80

Page 2 of 80

Economic Development and Planning Committee
February 4, 2014

(CORRESPONDENCE

1

‘The Thousand Islands Area Residents’ Association
Request for Support to nominate Upper St. Lawrence River as a Canadian
Heritage River

THAT the Council of the Corporation ofthe City of Brockville confirm its
endorsement of the submission by the Thousand Islands Area Residents’
Association (TIARA) nominating the Upper St. Lawrence River as a Canadian
Heritage River.

‘STAFF REPORTS

1

2013-141-12
Festival and Events Co-ordinator

(This matter was referred from the EDP meeting of December 3rd. Additional
information has been prepared and is attached to this agenda from the
Brockville and District Chamber of Commerce.)

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee recommend to
Council the establishment of a festival and events reserve account being
$119,000 +1- surplus generated from profit of the Tall Ships Festival- 1812
Tour, and further;

THAT the City enter into a three year contractual agreement with the
Brockville and District Chamber of Commerce/Tourism Office for a Festival
‘and Event Coordinator position with terms and conaitions to be presented to
Council at a later date for ratification.

NEW BUSINESS - REPORT FROM MEMBERS OF COUNCIL

1

Innovation Centre
(Councillor D. LeSueur)

(This matter was referred from the November EDP meeting.)

THAT Council authorizes the addition to the Economie Development
Department work plan, the research and participation of the Director of
Economic Development for the City of Brockville, with the committee for
creating an Innovation Centre; and

THAT the Director of Economic Development communicate and input ideas
along with NRC, Invest Ottawa, Launch Labs (Kingston), United Counties of
Leeds and Grenville, the 1000 Islands Community Development Corporation,

Page 3 of 80
Economic Development and Planning Committee
February 4, 2014

Leeds and Grenville Computer Technology Centre, the local Ange! Group,
interested council members and other partners who might join; and

THAT the Economic Development Department help with and advise on
potential plans forward: and

THAT Council recognizes the importance of job creation that comes with
Innovation Centres, as per our Economic Development Plan of 2010 which
was adopted by Council, in which Innovation Centres are mentioned as a
goal; and

THAT hours were spent on the greatest event Brockville has seen in years,

the Tall Ships Festival and now the City’s most economical way to create jobs
should be looked at.

Brainstorming
CONSENT AGENDA
ADJOURNMENT

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee adjourned its meeting
Until the next regular meeting scheduled for March 4, 2014.

25a ses?

a
LAUNCH LAB

@ THEINNOVATION CENTRE ©

Who Are We?

We are a team of entrepreneurs from Eastern
Ontario helping other entrepreneurs. We are
funded by the provincial government.

Qur goal is to be the catalyst for driving
economic growth and prosperity through
entrepreneurship and the commercialzation of
innovations as part of the Ontario Network of
Entrepreneurs (ONE) in Eastern Ontario.

There is no cost to clients who engage our
services.


25peRABE

What Can We Do?

© Business advisory services
‘9 One-on-one mentorship and guidance
6 Diect acces to our network of professionals
9 Goto-maet stategies
‘9 Market inteligence reports
© Aistance with business pian
© Asistance with pitch presentation

‘© Access to workshops and other educational tools

© Access to grants and other government programs


25peRABEE

What Don’t We Do?

‘9 We do not share your confidential information as our
statfis bound by non-disclosure agreements

‘0 We can provide guidance and assistance, but we do
not do the work for you

0 We are not a source of funding but are able to of
advice/mentosship to help narrow your focus,

‘© We will not standin the way of our clients’ success

Our Process

‘© Submit your busines: information through the Get
Started button on our website

‘© Come for an intial Discovery Meeting with our
administatve etal co we ean learn more about you,
your business. and how we can help

‘© Wok together to ensure your business fundamentals
areinplace

© Prepare a pitch presentation for our team of
Enltepreneursin Resdlence (ERs), our business
specialsts who can offer advice and guidance

‘9 Wek together with our team to bring your business to
the next level


2878/5848

Our Team

ceo

Michael Mann

Business Advisor Business Advisor
Stephen Beamish

Business Advisor
Joh

[OM susiness advisor
Scott Runté


25peRAGLE

For More Information

Please visit our website www.launchlab.ca and
Glick Get Started fo become a cient!

mm GET STARTED Jam

Follow us on Twitter: @launch_lab
Send us an email: info@launchlab.ca
Give us a call: 613-533-3300


www. tiara.on.ca

Thousand Islands Area Residents’ Association

An association dedicated to the preservation of the beauty and character of the Thousand Islands region

Directors

Laura Bell,
‘Michael Bell
Pamela Bliss
‘Mastin Borat
Davia But
Joy Macklem

‘Marion Mackeod.

Dr. Harry MoAdie
‘Michael MeCartiy
‘Margot Miler

Brian Reynolds

December 2, 2013
Ms. Sandra Seale

City of Brockville

T king St. W

Brockville ON KBV 7AS

Dear Ms. Seale,

During 2007, we made a presentation to Brockville City Council seeking its
‘support for our project to designate the St. Lawrence River, between Kingston and the
‘Quebec border, a Canadian Heritage River. We are re pleased to report that ater
‘much work over several years, the process is nearing completion. TIARA (The
‘Thousand Islands Area Residents’ Association) undertook the project feeling strongly
that the St. Lawrence, bound up closely with so much of Canada’s proud history, and
With its ouistanding natural and cultural values, richly daserves such a nomination,
‘There are currently 37 designated "Heritage Rivers” in Canada and it was
inconceivable to us that the Upper St. Lawrence should not be among them.

Following our presentation in 2007, we were encouraged and gratetul to receive a
letter of support from your municipality for our intiatve. Since then, after several years of
research, dur nomination document was prepared and formally presented to the
Canadian Heritage Rivers Board of Directors in May 2011. (This document is attached if
you wish toreviow it) The Board’s final requirement is that TIARA ask each
‘municipality along the river to confirm its endorsement of our nomination by a
Motion of Couneil. (We have attached a draft motion which Counell may wish to
consider

(Our volunteers would be very glad to answer any further questions you may have
about the designation or the process. We can perhaps accomplish this by
correspondence, or we would be happy to attend one of your Council meetings for this
purpose, if you wish

‘As alast step, the Canadian Heritage Rivers Board will present our nomination
to the Minister of Environment Canada for final approval. We are looking forward to the
day when the St. Lawrence can offically join this “hall of fame" of Canadian rivers, a
designation of which we will ll be proud.

Yours sincerely,
Bla Mackirtook

St. Lawrence Heritage River Project Committee

ST. LAWRENCE RIVER

the Thousand Is!


Page 11 of 80

In memory of Peter T. Macklem
1931 - 2011)

LVOREUILON SYHO JeARY eOUEIMET IS

Cover photograph courtesy of Christoph Fischer at www:beautysurroundsyou.com,
Email: egfischer@hotmail.com

Page 12.1 80,

Table of Contents

RIVER NOMINATION 5
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 7

CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTION 8

LI The Upper St. Lawrence River Heritage Designation 8 2
1.2 The Canadian Heritage Rivers System 10 5
153 Location and Description of the Upper St. Lawrence River 10 2
1.4 Role ofthe Upper St. Lawrence River inthe Canadian Heritage Rivers System 11 a
cuapten 2 CULTURAL mnRtTAGE VALUES 16 >
21 Description of Caltural Heritage Values 16 A
2.1.1 Resource Harvesting 16 3
2112 Water Transport "7 g
2113 Riparian Setement a FA
2114 Culture and Recreation 25 Z
21.5 Jurisdictional Use 25 5
22'assessment of Cltural Heritage Values 31 3
22.1 Selection Guidelines: Cultural Values 31 zg
32.2 Inegrity Guidelines: Cultural Integrity Values 2 g
CHAPTER 3 NATURAL HERITAGE VALUES M 3

3.1 Description of Naural Heritage Values FH

SL Hydiology FA

3112 Physiography 36

3113 River Morphology 8

3.14 Biot Environments 9

31.5 Vegetation 41

3116 Fama 41

3.2 Assessment of Naural Heritage Values a

3211 Selection Guidelines: Natural Heritage Values a

3.22 Integrity Guidelines: Natural Integrity Values 4

CHAPTER 4 RECREATIONAL VALUES ry

41 Description of Recreitional Values "

4.11 Boating a7

412 Angling 46

41,3 Swimming and Water Contact Sports 48

41.4 Water-AssocatedActivities a8

4.1.5 Winter Activities ~

4.1.6 Natural Heritage Appreciation 0

41.7 Cultural Heritage Appreciation ~

4.2 Assessment of Recreational Values 0

42.1 Selection Guidelines: Recreational Values 50

4.2.2 Integrity Guidelines: Recreational Integrity Values 50

CONCLUSION
REFERENCES
APPENDICES

Appendix A: List of National Historie Plagues along the Upper St. Lawrence River
"Appendix B: List of Provincial Historie Plagues along the Upper St. Lawrence River

32

33

s4
56

Page 13. 80,

LVOREUILON SYHO JeARY eOUEIMET IS


River Nomination

Whereas, the St Lawrence River, known to Fist Nations as Kaniataraowaneneh (the
majestic and magnificent river), was the central artery for exploration, commerce and
«ross-cultural contact between aboriginal groups and European settlers,

Whereas, the Upper St. Lawrence region shows evidence of prehistoric Aboriginal
‘occupation as eat as the Paleo-Indian period (9000 ~ 5000 BCE).

Whereas, Europeans arrived in the Upper St. Lawrence region inthe 1600s, providi
Canadians with almost 400 years of history related to exploration, trade, conflict and
settlement

Whereas, the Upper St. Lawrence River was and continues to bea vital transportation
route, helping to sustain earlier fur and timber trades and present-day international trade.

Whereas, numerous fortification-based communities can be found along the north shore of
the Upper St. Lawrence, revealing the stories of relations among First Nations and
Europeans and between Canadians and Americans.

Whereas, the Upper St. Lawrence offers a rich socal history of trade between Canada and
the USS. spanning more than a century.

Whereas, the region was the scene of many battles that marked significant points in the
development of Canada as a nation ~ fom the Beaver Wars and the French and Indian
War, tothe War of 1812 and Rebellions of 1837 — and was a hotbed of activity during the
“Ametican Civil War,

Whereas, the construction ofthe Seaway on the Upper St. Lawrence River offers a unique
“Lost Villages” and the industrial development of Canada,

Whereas, well-preserved homesteads and buildings showease a
living styles from the nineteenth century.

ge of building and

Whereas, the Upper St. Lawrence traverses an area that represents more than one billion

‘years of evolutionary history.

Whereas, the Upper St Lawrence River consists of @ complex array of habitats including
more than 1,800 islands, 2,000 shoals and thousands of hectares of coastal wetlands.

Whereas, the Upper St. Lawrence is situated in the centre of the most important area of
ecological connectivity east of the Rocky Mountains, with Algonquin Park tothe north
‘and Adironacks State Park in New York State to the south

Page 14.1 80,

LVOREUILON SYHO JeARY eOUEIMET IS


‘Whereas, the region is home to the Frontenac Arch Biosphere, one of 1 UNESCO-
designated biospheres in Canada,

‘Whereas, the Upper St. Lawrence is home to 31 species at risk and supports mote than 88
species of fish in the Thousand Islands area alone

‘Whereas, the Upper St. Lawrence has an impressive network of scenic roads and hiking
and biking tails along both its north and south shores, most prominent of which isthe
‘Thousand Island Parkway.

‘Whereas, the Upper St. Lawrence River includes the full range of water-based activities
such as boating, angling, camping, hiking, and natural and cultural appreciation, which
‘work together to form a unique river-touring experience.

‘Whereas, environmental, cultural and recreational groups on both the Ontario and
American sides ofthe Upper St. Lawrence work together to conserve and celebrate the
river's rch heritage

‘Therefore, iis recommended by the Province of Ontario that the 200-kilometre-long
section ofthe St. Lawrence River bordering the Province of Ontario, from the headwaters
Lake Ontario to Lake St.Francis, be nominated to the Canadian Heritage
Rivers System for the purpose of recognizing, celebrating and conserving the River's
‘outstanding cultural heritage values.

Honourable Linda Jeffey
Minister of Natural Resources
Province of Ontario

Date

Page 15. 80

LVOREUIWON SYHO J9ARy 2DUBIMET IS,


Executive Summary

‘This document presents the case in support of the nomination of the Upper St. Lawrence
River for inclusion in the Canadian Heritage Rivers System. The nomination is based on
the river’ cultural heritage values, and covers the area from the St. Lawrence’s
headwaters at Kingston tothe Ontario-Québee border.

“The Upper St. Lawrence River has a long and storied role inthe pre-history and
development of Canada. Activity on the river ean be traced back to prehistoric times, From
the fur trade to the lumber trade, the St. Lawrence River served as the shipping link
‘between the Atlantic Ocean and the Canadian interior, and was used by Aboriginal and
European communities alike. By enabling the trading of Canada’s natural resources, it was
‘a key facilitator of Canada’s development as a country.

“Today, the Upper St. Lawrence boasts abundant histori sites and museums along its
length, offers a stunning and internationally-recognized riparian environment in the
‘Thousand Islands, and remains a vital ransportation route linking the Atlantic Ocean to
the Great Lakes,

Designating the Ontario portion ofthe St. Lawrence River would address recognized gaps
in the Canadian heritage river network. This section ofthe river crosses both international
nd provincial boundaries; has been the backdrop for Aboriginal and European cross-
cultural contact; boasts distinctive architecture inspired by the river, and is home to well-
developed and nationally recognized land-based tourism attractions

Future designation of the Ontario portion ofthe St, Lawrence will build on the
‘considerable community support and momentum that exists on both the Canadian and
American sides ofthe river. There already exists a strong grassroots commitment to
sustainable living and stewardship of cultural and natural values built by initiatives such as
the Frontenac Arch Biosphere Reserve, Disparate communities inthe region are working
together and building networks.

Designating the Ontario portion ofthe St. Lawrence River asa heritage river will build
upon this strong foundation in the interests of protecting, enhancing, and publicizing the
cultural and natural heritage of this special waterway.

Page 16.080,

LVOREUILON SYHO JeARY eOUEIMET IS


Page 17 of 80

INTRODUCTION

1.1 The Upper St. Lawrence River Heritage Designation

UORBUIWON SUH JeNRY eoURUMET Ig

The St. Lawrence River holds a unique and special place inthe development and daily life 3
of Canada, Kaniataraowaneneh (the majestic and magnificent rive) asthe St. Lawrence 3
‘vas frst named sa mother iver of Canada. I was the central artery for exploration, 5
commerce and cross-cultural contact between aboriginal groups and European settlers. s
to bea vita transportation route. For these reasons and more, the St Lawrence isa worthy 3

addition to the Canadian Heritage Rivers System (CHS).

‘There has been a growing interest within the communities along the Canadian and
American sides of the river to seek heritage river status forthe St. Lawrence, Its felt that
such a designation would significantly increase awareness of the river's cultural, natural
and recreational values and encourage its conservation and sustainable management,

‘In August 2007, the Thousand Islands Area Residents’ Association (TIARA) accepted the
leadership role in preparing the nomination for heritage river status forthe Ontario section
of the St. Lawrence River, from Kingston to just east of Cornwall. At this time, the
Québec Government does not participate in the CHRS program,

TIARA is a grassroots organization of some 650 members, drawn from Canadian an
American landowners in the Thousand Islands and along the shoreline of the St. Lawrence
from Kingston to Brockville, Ontario.

TIARA embarked on an extensive round of meetings with all local governments along the
\ario side ofthe river, including the Band Council ofthe Mohawk of Akwesasne. As
well, in the summer of 2008, TIARA commissioned an extensive study of the cultural and
natural values of the St. Lawrence River.


Page 18.0 80,

Finally, TIARA created the St. Lawrence Heritage River Committee to advise on the
rhomination process and to set in motion a Management Plan for the river. The Committee
is made up of two TIARA Board members, one First Nations and one tourism industry
representative, one historian and 1wo additional stakeholders (see Appendix x for the
‘membership list).

1.1.1 Community Support
‘There is widespread support on both sides of the river for nominating the Uppet St
Lavrencel as a Canadian Heritage River. Many individuals representing organizations in
‘Ontario and New York State are contributing to this initiative, Meetings have taken place
in communities along the river, tapping into considerable enthusiasm,

‘Typical was a meeting in Brockville in December 2009, where more than 50
representatives from municipal governments, Canadian and American goverament and
non-government agencies, the Akwesasne First Nation and academic institutions discussed
holistic approaches for managing the river and building partnerships. Several participants
made the ease that securing heritage river status would be an effective way to promote and
protect the historical and aesthetic values ofthe river and to spur the ereation of
“Management Plan and stewardship council

‘The heritage river nomination process is a natural outgrowth of existing and well-
supported initiatives to secure the cultural and natural health ofthe region, such as the
Algonquin to Adirondack project and the Frontenac Arch Biosphere Reserve.

oponponuy

1.1.2 Methodology
‘The Upper St. Lawrence River nomination document identifies significant cultural, natural
and recreational values found on the Ontario section ofthe St. Lawrence River, as defined
by Canadian Heritage Rivers Board guidelines. The nomination is based on the river's
‘outstanding cultural heritage values

©

Tyy Lea Bridge


‘The Canadian Heritage Rivers System

‘The mandate of the CHRS is to promote, protect and enhance Canada’s river heritage and
to ensure that Canada’s leading rivers are managed in a sustainable manner. One way it
fulfils its mandate is by recognizing rivers with significant natural or cultural heritage
‘values, and outstanding recreational values that are backed by community support for a
management plan.

Designating a Canadian heritage river is a nwo-step process overseen by the Canadian
Heritage Rivers Board. The Board is made up of 1S members appointed by federal,
provincial and territorial governments. Fitst, typically working with a local group of |
interested citizens, a province ot tertitory submits a nomination proposal to the Board that
shows how the proposed river meets the selection criteria,

the nomination is accepted by the Board, the local group develops a Heritage Strategy
‘with wide community involvement that ensures the river's heritage values will be protected
for future generations. The Board will consider, and if appropriate endorse the Heritage
Strategy, and recommend the river's designation to the jurisdictional minister responsible
for CHRS. The river is officially designated federal ministerial

Location and Description of the Upper St. Lawrenee River

In its enttety, the St, Lawrence River is the tenth largest in the world in terms of flow. The
Upper St. Lawrence itself consists of a complex array of habitats including more than
1,800 islands, 2,000 shoals and thousands of hectares of coastal wetlands.

‘Old Galop Canal and Lock at Cardinal

- hl
= — oo

aed

Sms

—

S

Page 19.1 80,

UOREUIWON SYHO J9ARy 2DUBIMET IS,

oponponuy

fo)

Page 20.1 80

‘The Ontario portion ofthe river measures approximately 200 kilometres long, from the
headwaters at Kingston 0 the Quebec border, some 30 kilometres east of Cornwall. The
Upper St. Lawrence can be divided into four sections. The first section runs from Kingston
{0 Mallorytown Landing, In this zone, the hydrology transitions from lake to river.
Management challenges include habitat degradation, loss of biodiversity and maintenance
‘of adequate water levels. Here are provincial and national parks and the beauty of the
‘Thousand Islands.

‘The second stretch of the Upper St. Lawrence runs from Brockville through Jolnstow
‘Ontatio. Ths stretch is straight and fairly natrow. The water is fast moving and has great
larity, offering superb diving opportunities. The river becomes heavily channelized from
approximately Prescott to Johnstown. The atea features a fortification built in the early
nineteenth century and excellent fish habitat just east of Prescot.

‘The third section is Lake St. Lawrence, an artificial lake ereated during the construction of
the St. Lawrence Seavay. This is where the original character of the river has been most
affected. The Seaway brought dams, locks and flooding, which
villages, now collectively known as the “Lost Villages.” The now placid waters are
populated by carp and walleye. Affeets on water quality from i

UOREUIWON SYHO J9ARy 2DUBIMET IS,

Primary management challenge 3

“The fourth section, fon he MosesSauners Dam tothe Ontario- Qube border, is called 8

Lake St. Francis. The lake's level i controlled bythe Moses-Saunders Dam andthe s

Beauharois Dam. There are isan, andthe coastal wetlands ate ich in biodiversity. The

Alovesane Fist Nation Reserve i located atthe eastem edge ofthe Upper St. Lawrence "1

Looking at the river from a macro level, the Upper St. Lawrence is situated in the most
important area of ecological connectivity east of the Rocky Mountains, with Algonquin
Park to the north and Adironacks State Park in New York State to the south,

1.4 Role of the Upper St. Lawrence River in the Canadian Heritage
Rivers System

For the first 10 years of the program, the primary goal ofthe CHRS was to cooperatively
‘build a system With heritage rivers in each province and territory. For the second decade,
the program focused on building value and recognition in the system and sustaining river
heritage

For the program’s third decade, the 2008-2018 Canadian Heritage Rivers System Strategic
Plan defined four priorities. They are to: “build a comprehensive and representative system
that recognizes Canada’s river heritage”; “conserve the natural, cultural, and recreational
‘values and integrity of designated Canadian Heritage rivers”; “engage communities and
partners co maximize th full range of benefits associated with the Canadian heritage rivers
program”; and “foster excellence in river management.”

Page 21 of 80

Clearly, in considering future rivers for designation, the CHRS is most interested in those
‘that have heritage and cultural values that are underrepresented in the system,

‘Where are those gaps? The Canadian Heritage Rivers Board commissioned a report to help
answer that question. The report concluded that, for cultural heritage values, the eight most
underrepresented “cultural framework elements” are: Agricultural Extraction, Architectural
Responses to River Locations, Human Consumption, Aboriginal-European Conti
Interprovincial-Territorial Boundaries, Trans-boundary Rivers, Collection of Shellfish, and
Land-based Touring,

‘The Upper St. Lawrence River would help fill some of these gaps in the following ways.

+ Architectural Responses to River Locations: Many of the Georgian-style houses built
by Loyalists who setled in the area following the American Revolution represented
architectural responses to river locations. The riparian style was also reflected in barns,
farms and fences, such as the Schohaire style of barn. More recently, grand houses — and
‘even a castle — are distinctive features of the Thousand Islands region,

+ Aboriginal-European Conflict: The French-Iraquois Wars involved a series of

LUOREUIWON SYHO JeAry eoUEIMeT IS

Mak vio funded in 177 Joined the Loyal lees duty the Ameri a
Revolution Mohawks aso fought longi hei Canadian alice the War of 1812, he 3
Dato! Reon ofthe 19804 and the Fenian fasion ofthe 1860

12

+ Trans-boundary Rivers: At the junction of both an international and provincial
‘boundary, the Upper St. Lawrence serves as a prime example of a trans-boundary river.

+ Land-based Tourism: The Upper St. Lawrence has an impressive network of seenic
roads and hiking and biking trails along both its north and south shores. Most prominent is
the Thousand Island Parkway, which extends approximately 40 kilometres from
Gananoque to just West of Brockville. The Parkway featutes a well-used hiking/biking trail
and dramatic views of small istands and the river habitat.

In terms of natural values, the gap analysis commissioned by the Canadian Heritage Rivers
Board cites five rivers not part of the CHRS that support rare fish species: the St
Lawrence, Columbia, Kootenay, Milk and Shubenacadie. The Upper St. Lawrence, for
‘example, supports populations of Lake sturgeon, Bridal shiner, Pugnose shiner, and striped
‘bass all species designated at risk.

‘The Upper St. Lawrence is home to several other species of concern including Blanding’s
turtle, bald eagles, osprey and black ter,

Status of the Canadian Heritage River System

Yukon River
(Thirty Mile
Section)
Fleuve Yukon
(trongon
Thirty Mile}

acd i Coppermini
Tatshenshify | Nt LN
’

| ee
ee Kozan
[ei
|
North Soskatche

\ Saskatthewan-Notd
icking Horse

Boundary Wate) shale
La route frontaliére des voyageurs shenarae
St. fol St.
Sainte-Marie aint-Jean Sainte-Croix
Humber
French rend

—~ Designated rivers / Rivieres désignées des Francais
~~~ Nominated rivers / Riviéres mises en candidature

08 J0zz abe

Historical Map of the St. Lawrence River

Ruviere S*Lavrens

Fy

‘Map of the Upper St. Lawrence River

‘ecion?

08 Jo 2 266

Cultural Heritage Values

‘This section describes the outstanding cultural heritage Features of the Ontario portion of
the St Lawrence River upon which this nomination is based, The deseription is organized
according to the five heritage themes ofthe Cultural Framework for Canadian Heritage
Rivers, Second Edition, 2000.

2.1 Description of Cultural Heritage Values

2.1 THEME I: Resource Harvesting
‘The Upper St. Lawrence region shows evidence of prehistoric Aboriginal occupation as
carly as the Paleo-Indian period (9000 ~ $000 BCE.). Europeans arrived tothe area in the
1600s, providing us with almost 400 years of history related to exploration, trade, c

and settlement

Fishing
‘There is evidence of Aboriginal pre-historic fishing in the Thousand Islands around 4000
BCE, The remains of campsites indicate that nomadie people camped there seasonally to
fish for sturgeon, walleye, eel and catfish, leaving behind bear, deer and beaver b

Historical domestic fishing was recorded in the eighteenth century during the Seven Years
War by Captain Francois Pouchot of the French Navy when he visited Grenadier Island. In
his memoirs, he wrote

At five leagues from Point au Baril isthe Island of Tonata. The main channel ofthe vver
is berween this island and the south shore. The north part of the river is filled with rashes,
‘and in sume, ts famous fr a thriving ce fishery

‘Commercial fishing inthe Upper St. Lawrence was mostly ata small seal, supplying the
local markets and restaurants. Eel, however, was popular in Europe and Japan, allowing the
cal fishing industry to access commercial markets. During the Depression, the sturgeon

Page 25 of 80,

UORBUIWON SUH JeNRY eoURUMET Ig

sanjen e620} jeuminD

fo)

fishery was also a significant enterprise. Lake St. Fran
fishing neovork on the river.

is had the largest commercial

‘Shoreline Resource Harvesting
The Lipper St. Lawrence offered an abundance of resources for Aboriginal groups during
the summer months. Although not as widespread as other areas of Canad, trapping of fur
bearing animals, particularly muskrat, was still performed in the Upper St. Lawre
limited basis in the protected coves and bays of the river. The collection of aquatic plants
\was in the form of wild rice for Food and marsh grass for weaving baskets,

There is also evidence of early hunting practices in the area, including stone spear-points,
Which have been excavated at Lake St. Francis, and stone hunting tools, which were
discovered on Gordon Island in the Thousand Islands. Duck hunting was very popula
the area, resulting in many of the original decoy designs coming from the Upper St
Lawrence ~ created by the people who used them most. Many artefacts have been also
been uncovered at Grenadier Island and at Kerry Point

Extraction of Water
The waters of the St. Lawrence were a key factor in the region's growing settlements and
participation in trade, Direet drive power generation came in the forms of rill, which in
turn helped establish commerce and trade. Edwardsburg Starch Company and the Canada
Starch Company, for example, hamessed power from locks atthe Galop Canal. Other mills
included Jones's Mills (Brockville), Robert Shepherd Grist Mill (Brockville), Stone’s
Mill/Gananogue Mills, George Longley Grist Mill and Tower, Beach’s Sawmill (now at
Upper Canada Village), and Steam Flour Mill (now at Upper Canada Village.

Industrial water extraction was important to the thriving of businesses such as tanneries,
distilleries and ice cutting.

2.2 THEME 2: Water Transport

Providing access from the Atlantic Ocean to the Great Lakes, the St. Lawrence River was
an important transportation route and continues to be so today.

Commercial Transportation
Transportation along the St. Lawrence River took a range of forms, from the earliest
‘methods such as canoes and bateaux tothe horse boat ferries, There was also winter travel
such as sleigh along the “bushed roads”, where cedar branches were placed along the edges
‘of the roads to mark the path, During fall freeze and spring thaw, ice boats were used to
‘ross the river.

The early fur trade saw the use of historic human-powered freight often in the form of
bateaux — shallow-drafi, flat-bottomed boats. The distinct clandestine nature ofthe early
French fur traders makes it difficult to gauge who came up the St. Lawrence and when.
There are, however, some lasting pieces of evidence. For example, itis argued that

Page 26 1 80

LUOREUIWON SYHO J9ARy BDUBIMET IS,

sanjen e620} jeuminD

3

Excerpt from Letter dated July 16 1804, From Joel Stone to
‘wife Abigail, describing his Venture over the Long Sault
Rapids on a log raf:

with enough to do got on board the Canadian Boat wind
fare and very strong_Evening com on, I went to Sleep and.
Did not wake until we were going down the Galoos and not
‘thinking [my associate] near behind _ Did not stop untill I got
1 the famos Esquir Reed oposit Brambarts _so here I found
‘my mistake then stopped my trunk turned about and went
back as far as Epliraim Jones Esq, then saw my raft
“underway and was informed by him that they had loaded on
+300 barrels flower and was underway I tacked about again
‘went to the head of the Long Suit [Sault] waited there until I
‘aw my rafls coming in Dis order _she struck in the Galoos
struck on the evibb there_and the next parted coming dows
wo by 100 O and Or [over and over} and some without any
‘body on them. I got hands forthwith Collected together
[unclear word] Cribbs and secured them atthe head of the Sew.
[Sault]_this on Saturday, Sunday Stephen went back after the
Other Cribb, I went down the Suit with Six Safe and this Day T
have heard Stephen had got all his Cribb and near coming
Down will hope to be underway Soon and to stick with my
raft.”

Compeau, Timothy J
bbup:/www.colonelstone.ca/July letter uml (Accessed
(October 27, 2010)

Page 27 of 80

UOREUIWON SYHO J9Ary eOUBIMET IS

sanjen e620} jeuminD

@

Cardinal, a small town on the Upper St. Lawrence situated between Brockville and
Cornwall, took its name from the voyageur landmark at the Galop rapids, Pointe au
Cardinale. As the men poled their bateaux passed the rapids, they may have stopped here to
refill their pipes and break from the hatd labour. The Narrows between Kerry Point and
Grenadier Island was another well known pipe stop. Persons passing through this area for
the first time were subjected to an initiation much like erossing the equator.

In the nineteenth century, larger vessels sue as the paddlers and steamships, as well asthe
timber barges, overtook the smaller vessels in popularity. The new powered commercial
{freight provided a vital service to the public and businesses on the Upper St. Lawrence,
While the river itself provided a vital water highway on which they could operate. Vessels
that have a rich and memorable history with the people of the river inelude the Rapids
Prince and the Great Britain

The Lipper St. Lawrence River also played a key role in the surface bulk transportation of
logs forthe booming lumber trade. The timber industry used the Upper St. Lawrence to
ship its product to Montréal and across the Adantic. Of particular importance is the Calvin
Co. of Garden Island, who were not only master shipbuilders but were deep in the business
‘of cordwood and lumber. Thousands of log drams set off from Garden Island to make the
journey down the river, over the rapids, tobe loaded on ocean-going vessels in Montréal

Transportation Services
Fur trading posts such as Fort Frontenac, builtin 1673 by Governor General Louis de
Buade Frontenac, extended the fur trade into the hinterland and helped control the fur-rich
Great Lakes basin. Several habitant houses, an Indian village, a convent and a Recollet
Church grew about the young outpost of French expansionism. Until the War of 1812,
hen the fort was deemed obsolete it served asa barracks for British forces and a
stomping ground for passing fur traders.

tthe same time Fort Frontenac was being constructed, a small trading post and fortified
depot was established atthe present day site of Johnstown, Fort La Galete, atthe head of
the Galop rapids, became a regular stop for traders and troops making their way up the St
Lawrence to Fort Frontenac and beyond.

(Owners of wharves (known then as "“Wharfingers”) provided an essential service to the

shipping industry, Farmers and lumber dealers for example, would sell their produet to the

\harfinger who would then sell it to companies that shipped it dow the river and

eventually exported it Many, such as Thomas Darling and his sons, sold eordwood as fuel

for the vessels, The Wharfingers’ stores sold essential goods to people of the town as well

as those vessels making their way up and down the river. Notable locations along the river
luded Darlingside, Moulinette and Dickinson's Landi

Navigational improvements along the St, Lawrence came in the form of dams a
essential for shipping as well as for providing power tothe riparian communities, The
Upper St. Lawrence bas had 200 years of alterations, beginning with small-scale canals at
Long Sault and Galop. Some of the early canals, such asthe Williamsburg Canals

canals,

Page 28 o 80,

LUOREUIWON SYHO J9ARy BDUBIMET IS,

sanjen e620} jeuminD

o

(composed of the Farran Point, Rapide Plat, and Galop canals), ean still be seen today.

Undoubtedly, the most dramatic navigational improvement was the construction of the St
Lawrence Seaway, which opened in 1959, Construction ofthe 306-kilometre stretch of the
Seaway between Montreal and Lake Ontario is recognized as one of the most challenging
engineering feats in history. Particularly daunting was the International Rapids Section,
covering 70.8 kilometres from Comwall to Prescott, which involved the flooding of 10,
villages and hamlets,

Once completed, the Seaway transformed shipping on the St. Lawrence River. It led to the
creation of a new generation of larger, more efficient vessels designed specifically to fit as
snugly as possible into the Seaway’s locks. Ships measuring 222 metres in length, with
rafts of 7.6 metres, could now travel up and down the river, whereas the old system could
‘only handle 76-metre vessels—known as canallers—with drafts of under 4 metres,

Today, the primary carrier vessels fall into three main groups: "lakers" (bulkers and self
unloaders with their own onboard equipment for unloading cargo); ocean ships or “salties”;
and tug-propelled barges.

The region has a long history of ship building. The first sailing ship on the Great Lakes, the
Frontenac, a barque, was built by La Salle at Cataraqui (now Kingston) in approximately
1678. In 1758, the French built a shipvard at Pointe au Baril, now Maitland. At the Marine
Museum of the Great Lakes at Kingston, visitors can view a recent exhumation of a French
\Warship’s bow from the Cataraqui harbour. For Pointe au Baril the two barques ~ French
corvettes ~/'Outaouise and iroquoise, were the pride and last defenders of water
sovereignty for the French, Other shipyards along the river include the naval dockyard at
Kingston and the large-scale operation of the Calvin Co. at Garden Island.

The forwarding business boomed fora short while before the introduetion of the large
‘canals and vessels that could shoot the rapids. Facilvies for loading and provisioning

‘Smuggling and Bootlegging

Smuggling and bootlegging has always been
8 fact of life on the Upper St. Lawrence. As
‘early asthe days ofthe U.S. embargo on
‘Canadian and British imports daring the War
‘of 1812, smuggling has been common.
‘There's even an area onthe river inthe
‘Thousand Islands that bears reminder of this
clandestine industry: Smuggler’s Cove.

Page 29.01 80,

LUOREUIWON SYHO J9ARy BDUBIMET IS,

sanjen e620} jeuminD

nV
8

Page 30 01 80,

‘passengers were established in new towns atthe head and mouth ofa set of rapid, such as
Prescott and Cornwall. Hotels, ina, taverns and wharves met the demands of the ships and
‘cargoes, including passengers, that had to be transferred in order to pass the rapids. Today,
The Forwarders’ Museum in Prescott is housed in a building that was originally owned by
William Gilkison, the first forwarder to establish his business in Prescot in 1811

Exploration and Surveying
Although the French heritage on the Lower St, Laweence River i stil strong and vibrantly
apparent, the Upper St. Lawrence region was not out ofthe reaches of New France. The
French had a significant, if not well-documented, presence on the Upper St. Lawn
River. Aspects such as the history of Fort Frontenac, missionary work and high-profile
exploration have been recorded through such resources as journals, correspondences and
the seminal Jesuit Relations. Ye, this represents but a fraction ofthe h

the Upper St. Lawrence in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. I em
gauge how many coureurs de bois escaped colonial life in Québee and set to the terra
incognita to trade for Valuable furs in Indian country. Many were illiterate and most left
litle written traces of thei lives

In 1654, Jesuit missionary, Father Simon Le Moyne, became the first recorded European to
ascend the Upper St. Lawrence, which he recorded in his diary. La Salle, however, is,
among the most recognised of all the French explorers in North America. As Frontenae’s
protégé, he accompanied him up the St. Lawrence to Fort Frontenac. He not only left his
‘mark at Fort Frontenac, expanding the structure, but was also influential elsewhere as a
result of his intrepid nature and frequent journeys. One known site was the small trading
post he established in 1669 at what would become Dickinson's Landing, a town of the Lost
Villages.

UOREUIWON SYHO J9Ary eOUBIMET IS

sanjen e620} jeuminD

RX

By the time Jean Deshayes was sent on a surveying expedition to New France in 1685, he
had already earned a name for himself as a skilled hyrdrographic surveyor. He immediately
accompanied Governor General Denonville tothe trading post, Fort Frontenac, charting the


Page 31 of 80

route along the way. His map of the Upper and Lower St, Lawrence was first published in
1702 and then again in 1715. His study became the standard chart of the river util British
surveys of the 1760s. For his work, Deshayes was named Royal Hydrographer of New
France. Deshayes’ legacy continues today as he is credited for giving the Thousand Islands
thei name when he called the region, “lac des mille iles."

thas been argued that the American Revolutionary War created not one, but two nations.
is certainly the ease for what was to become the English-speaking province of Upper
‘Canada, established in the Constitutional Act of 1791. Whether they fled persecution for
loyalty o the Crown, or chased the opportunity of land and commerce, the United Empire
Loyalists who left the United States, nee the Thirteen Colonies, endured all the hardships
‘of establishing a new life in a rough land. A Historie Sites and Monuments Board of
‘Canada plague outside the new Fort Frontenae barracks in Kingston marks their migration
settlement to the area:

In October 1783, at Carleton Island near here, Captain Wiliam Redford Cravsont of the
‘King’s Royal Regiment of New York met with local Mississauga Indian led by the elderly
‘Mynass. Crawford, acting fr the British government, purchased from the Mississaugas for
some clothing, ammunition and coloured clath «large tract of land east of the Bay of
Quinte. The land was subsequently settled by United Empire Loyalists and Britains Indian
allies who had heen forced to leave ther homes tn the United States.

‘The Loyalists moved to the Upper St. Lawrence from Montréal in droves inthe Spring of
1784, Arriving on flotilla of bateaux, they arrived to re-establish ther ives with what
lite they had managed to escape from the Colonies. Prior to their arrival, Sir Frederick
Haldimand, Governor of Québec, had the north shore of the Upper St Lawrence surveyed 22
and drawn up. Under the leadership of Sir John Johnson who was charged with alot

the land, and the Deputy Surveyor, Captain Justus Sherwood, the Loyalists were granted
property gratis. Landing at such sites as New Oswegatchie and the Johnstown base camp,
Loyalists drew lots and were strategically placed in townships according to ethnic
background (i.e. English, Scottish, Dutch) and regiment

sonjen a6eqs94 jesming

‘Climax of the Action at Grysier's Farm

Battlof Crysle's Farm Vistor Cente, Cryer Park

The Loyalists immediately set to clearing the land, Constructing small working log
shanties, they hewed at che rich virgin forests until enough land was cleared for farming
(Fig. 21), From the shanty, hey eventually upgraded toa larger structure, many opting for
the vernacular loyalist stone dvvellings brought from the northern colonies,

24.3 THEME 3:

iparian Settlement

Siting of Dwellings
Archaeological evidence suggests Aboriginal campsites popped up along the St. Lawrence
during the summer. Algonquian-speaking people came from the interior and gathered in
larger groups in shoreline seasonal divellings along riverbanks and the seashore in the
summer to benefit from the abundance of fish, shellfish, birds and fruit. Stone tools, bones
and (later) ceramic cooking pots serve as evidence of the campsites.

‘When the Loyalists came from the Thirteen Colonies, they brought with them ideas and
styles typical of their region (ie, New England, Schohaire Valley of New York). Riverside
Jomesteads and farms were frst tents and then log shanties. The settlers hacked out the
surrounding wildemess to establish themselves, Many families later transitioned from the
temporary shanty ~ which became the bara ~to a permanent log house. The wealthier
families were able to make another transition into the limestone structures that characterise
towns along the iver such as Kingston and Brockuille.

The Georgian House, a common style inthe area, is found in various forms a
commonly referred to as American or Loyalist Vernacular for its American roots and
Georgian influences (symmettical and simple). These types of homes were the

{quintessential loyalist homes. There were, of course, more elaborate variations, such as,

‘Stone home in the Loyalist Vernacular style

i

Page 32 01 80

UORBUIWON SUH JeNRY eoURUMET Ig

sanjen e620} jeuminD

x
8

Homewood of the Georgian Classicism style

The typical riparian style was also reflected in barns, farms and fences. A represen
the Schohaire-style of barn can be found at Upper Canada Village in the form of two barns
from the early 1800s moved from Kirkwood near Aultsville. There are also churches, inns,
taverns and hotels that reflect the style; Upper Canada Village hosts originals such as
Cook's Tavern and Willard’s Hotel

A permanent riverside dwelling of particular note is the Morrisburg Stage Coach Ina, now
aa home located on the water in the west end of Morrisburg. It was recently purchased by
Dr. Traer Van Allen and has been converted into a period home and archives. From Dr. Van
Allen, it was leaned thatthe home used to be operated as an inn for those travelling the
original King’s Highway to bypass the rapids ~the original road passing between the home
and the river, facing a section of the Williamsburg Cana

River-based Communities
Along the St. Lawrence, fortification-based communities established around forts such as
those at Oswegatchie/Fort La Présentation (Ogdensburg). Fort Frontenac, for example, saw
the construction of longhouses, which served to build a strong relationship between
Aboriginal and European traders that fuelled the fur trade. Although it had a tenuous
existence in relation to ongoing wars, Fort Frontenac saw a small hamlet grow around its
\alls prior to war in 1680. From such resources as correspondences, maps and plans, it is
evident that those that garrisoned the trading post brought thet families to settle the
surrounding area

From bateaus to the memorable steamships, the river has been used both out of necessity
and convenience in a commerce that has allowed towns and eities to thrive on the river.
Primarily a shipping river, river industry-based communities were built with that fact
‘mind. As a result, these many towns became the stomping grounds of the sailor and the
teansient. Hotels and taverns were commonplace on the ubiquitous “Water Street”. Places

Horse Towing through the canal, Upper Canada Village

Page 33 1 80

UOREUIWON SYHO J9Ary eOUBIMET IS

sanjen e620} jeuminD

i
R

such as Cook’s Tavern, which was moved fo and restored at Upper Canada Village, and the
at Morrisburg were perfect haunts for the waveller and mariner

owed its existence tothe river. Certain islands such as Grenadier, Tar, Club,
Welles and Grindstone supported substantial farming communities that enjoyed an
advantage over theit mainland counterparts. The river provided a ready-made highway.
Island farmers, for example, were able to row their milk to the doorstep of the cheese
factory in Rockport until its destruction by fre in the 1930s.

River-influenced Transportation
Steamship, paddlers, and ferries provided a vital service to the public and businesses ofthe
Fiver, while the river itself provided a vital water highway on which they could operate.

The frst ferry service from Prescott to Ogdensburg started in the 1770s, initiating a long
history of ferry wansportation on the Upper St, Laweence River. Ferties that hold a rich and
‘memorable history with the people of the river include the Rapids Prince, the Great Britain
and The River Girl (he frst ferry at Prescott). For some time, there was also a sign
twiangular route encompassing the Ottawa, Rideau and St. Lawrence rivers.

During winter, sleighs served asa viable transportation option to cross the river at frozen
‘rossings, while fll freeze and spring thaw saw the employment of ice boats.

sant land=
the

In more recent times, the Upper St. Lawrence inspired the creation of a signi
based route for vehicles. King's Highway 2S was a scenic parkway constructed dui
late 1930s through the Thousand Islands region between Gananoque and Brockville
Highway 2S was one of Ontario’s earliest divided highways. In 1970, it was officially
renamed as the Thousand Islands Parkway and today offers one of the most memorable
seenie routes in the province

244 THEME

‘ulture and Recreation

Spiritual Associations
In many instances, settlements along the river still have standing ritual or ceremonial
structures and sites, such as churches. The “Blue Church” of New Oswegatchie, for
example, was a focal point for Methodism and Loyalists in Upper Canada. Half Moon Bay,
1 small, natural amphitheatre has served asa location of worship for more than 100 years
With worshippers attending services by boat, Butternut Bay was home to a Methodist
Episcopal summer retreat. An Aboriginal burial ground dating to ¢.1500 BCE has been
discovered on Sheek (Sheik) Island. And European burial places dot the Upper St.
Lawrence River. One of note is the Maple Grove Cemetery the only graveyard moved in
its entirety during the Seaway Project. Jeremiah French, a Loyalist in the American
Revolution and the first Member ofthe First Ontario Legislature for Stormont, is interred
at Maple Grove Cemetery.

Cultural Expression
Examples of cultural resources along the Ontario portion of the St. Lawrence River are

Page 34 of 80

LUOREUIWON SYHO J9ARy BDUBIMET IS,

sanjen e620} jeuminD

i
a

The Lost Villages
mn 1951, the Canadian
government established
the St. Lawrence Seaway
Authority with the
objective to construct and
operate a canal system
either wholly in Canada
‘or withthe United States
By 1954, the U.S,
[Government set up a
similar organization for
alterations to the US side
‘of the river system, The

project was an elaborate undertaking. In addition tothe construction

‘of canals, locks and dams, the riverbed needed to be deepened

areas and large areas of land needed to be flooded, including some

towns and villages

Inall, ten villages and hamlets were affected by the flooding: Mille
Roches, Moulinette, Wales, Dickinson's Landing, Farran’s Point
and Aultsville, as well a the hamlets of Maple Grove, Santa Cruz,
‘Woodlands and the far ity of Sheik’s/Sheek’s Island
Approximately 6500 residents and 550 dwellings were relocated to
‘wo new towns: Long Sault and Ingleside

‘The flooded towns and villages became known as The Lost
Villages. Some of the heritage buildings relocated prior to the
flooding can be seen today at The Lost Villages Museum, outside
Long Sault (Photo: Lost Villages Museum)

Page 35 of 80

LUOREUIWON SYHO J9ARy BDUBIMET IS,

sanjen e620} jeuminD

ny
&

Map of the Lost Villages

CANADA

08 Jo 98 286

abundant. Upper Canada Village is probably one of the most impressive examples of a
riverside museum, art gallery and commemorative structure in the area, if not the country.
‘The 60-hectate site includes more than 40 heritage buildings, as well as costumed
interpreters who recreate examples of life in the area in the 1860s, The buildings are
restored heritage buildings from the area, or reconstructed based on historical research.
Some of the buildings were relocated from villages that were flooded during the
‘construction of the St. Lawrence Seaway in 1958,

‘The Lost Villages Historical Society's Museum also includes heritage buildings from
Villages flooded in 1958, Ic holds 10 buildings that were moved and restored to the museum
site at Ault Park in Long Sault. Other museums that have cultural significance for the river
include Marine Museum of the Great Lakes at Kingston, Arthur Child Heritage Museum of
the Thousand Islands, Brockville Museum, Forwarder's Museum, Springfield House at
scott and Batle of Crysler’s Farm Interpretive Cente,

Culturally associated sites also prove abundant in the area. In Kingston alone, there is Fort
Frontenac, which was key tothe fur trade, as well as Fort Henry, Martello Towers, Fort
Frederick, Catheart Tower, Murmey Tower and Shoal ~all of which have been designated
historic sites

‘As mentioned in the Riparian Settlements section, many of the homes built by Loyalists
\ho settled in the area following the American Revolution represented architectural
responses to river locations in tit typical Riparian style.

Early Recreation
During the last half of the nineteenth century, the Thousand Islands area of the St.
Lawrence saw the development of resorts, designed to take advantage of the areas
recreational possibilities. A guide book published in I881 suggested three possible reasons
that a visitor might come to the Thousand Island: "Ist health and happiness, 2nd)
‘enthusiasm and poetic feeling, a a substitute for dullness and dry prose, 3rd) love

Thousand Islands 1796

Page 37 of 80

sonjen a6eqs94 jesming


matches

Recreational boating was popular and in particular the St. Lawrence Skiff —a boat similar
toa canoe but with its own unique design elements. Angling was also a popular
recreational activity, often led by guides. The muskellunge, a large freshwater fish, was one
of the most popular sport fish,

By the 1890s, hotels and privately owned islands became popular. Hay Island and Tremont
Park Island near Ganaoque were home to popular guest houses.

24.8 THEME

jurisdictional Use

Conflict and Military Associations
‘The St. Lawrence River suffered under numerous conflicts throughout its histor.
Aboriginal internecine conflict in the area likely began early in the common era and
included the sixteenth and seventeenth century wats between the Mohawk and Algonquin
for dominance of the Upper St. Lawrenee. After pushing the Algonquin out of the Upper
St. Lawrence in the early 1600s, the Iroquois launched a full-scale war against the Huron
that ended in their dispersal and near-ex The Iroquois then became the dominant
group of the Upper St. Lawrence for most ofthe seventeenth century, waging intermittent
\war against the French and their Algonquin allies.

In the late 1680s, a coalition of Ottawa, Mississauga and refugee Huron began attacking
Iroquois settlements on and south of the St. Lawrence. By the 1720s, the Mississauga had
replaced the Iroquois on the Upper St. Lawrence and became the masters ofthe Thousand
Islands. The Iroquois maintained some control of the Upper St, Lawrence, but isolated to
the south shore ofthe easter portion.

Tis worth noting thatthe region was the birthplace of the Iroquois League or Confederacy,
Which was formed sometime between 1450 and 1600. The Confederacy originally
consisted of five nations: the Mohawks, Oneidas, Cayugas, Senecas and Onondagas.
Delegates from each nation met at Onondaga, on the south shore of the Upper St.
Lawrence, to resolve disputes and discuss matters of mutual interest. Historians have
suggested the Iroquois system of government influenced the development of the United
States Constituti

‘The French-Iroquois Wars often refered 10 as the Beaver Wars, was an example of
Aboriginal’ European conflict. involved a series of intermittent conflicts, mostly in the
form of small guertlla-like skirmishes and raids, taking place over most of the seventeenth
century. Sporadie Mohawk raids on French farms of the Lower St. Lawrence were the
‘norm, The Beaver Wars, asthe name suggests, were ostensibly wars for dominance over
the fur trade,

Although the Seven Years’ War began in 1756 in Europe, small-scale war had already
rupted two years earlier in the interior of North America, The Seven Years" War in Nosth

Page 38 1 80

LUOREUIWON SYHO J9ARy BDUBIMET IS,

sanjen e620} jeuminD

np
8

Page 39 01 80,

America is often referred to asthe French and Indian War, with New France capitulating in
1760, This long and gruelling European internecine conflict took place on many fonts. On
the Upper St. Lawrence, it was known as the Battle of the Thousand Islands,

During the War of 1812, Upper Canada’s colonial government went to great lengths 10
censure the sovereignty ofthe river from American incursions, especially following the
intensive setlement of the Loyalists after the American Revolution. The Upper St.
Lawrence was now a water boundary and vital shipping highway that connected Upper
‘Canada to Montréal and the Atantic.

Boundaries
‘The St. Lawrence is part of Canada’s most significant border ~ the international boner
‘with the United States. It runs almost the entire length ofthe Upper St. Lawrence and was
established following the War of 1812 by the Treaty of Ghent. Soon thereafter, the Rush-
Bagot Treaty of 1818 laid the groundwork forthe demilitarization ofthe Canada-US.
border. There have also been treaties of reciprocity and navigation, as well a the seminal
Boundary Waters Treaty in 1909 that set an intersational precedent for waterways as an
intemational boundary between friendly nations

Although this nomination refers to the Ontario portion of the St. Lawrence River, the river
itself flows through Ontario's neighbouring province of Quebee. The interprovincial
‘order that separates Ontario and Quebee was a result of the Constitutional Act of 1791
‘and remains today.

LUOREUIWON SYHO J9ARy BDUBIMET IS,

sanjen e620} jeuminD

Abhistoric land use boundary includes the cur
‘Akwesasne was founded in 1747

1 Akwesasne Reserve; the village of

2
8

At the junction of both an international and provincial boundary, the St. Lawrence River
serves as a prime example of a transboundary river

Environmental Regulation
‘The Upper St. Lawrence River has a history of flood control and improvements to water
‘management, The building of the Seaway and the installation of dams in the late 1950s
allowed for the generation of hydroelectricity and the regulation of water levels, The
Moses-Saunders Power Dan, which crosses the St. Lawrence River between Comwall,
‘Ontario, and Massena, New York, regulates Lake Ontario outflows. A second dam, located
near Long Sault, Ontario, acts as a spillway when outflows from Lake Ontario are larger
than the eapacity ofthe power dam. A third dam at Iroquois, Ontario, is used to assist in the
formation ofa stable ice cover in the winter as well as to prevent water levels from rising
100 high in Lake St. Lawrence.


Page 40 1 80,
2.2 Assessment of Cultural Heritage Values

The following assessment applies Selection Guidelines for Cultural Values and Cultural
Value Integrity Guidelines as required for the Nomination of Canadian Heritage Rivers
(CHRS, 2001). The assessment demonstrates thatthe Ontario portion ofthe St. Lawrence
River satisfies all of the required Selection and Integrity Guidelines for cultural values.

22.1 Selection Guidelines: Cultural Values
Therefore, outstanding Canadian cultural value will be recognized when a river and its
immediate environment

Guideline: is of outstanding import
‘on the historical development of Ca
Which itis located or beyond; or
The Upper St. Lawrence River is of outstanding importance to the historical developmen
of Canada due tits role as a major trade, travel and transportation route. Use ofthe river
‘ean be traced back to prehistoric Aboriginal use and through history to present day. From
the fur trade to the lumber trade, the St. Lawrence River served as the sipping link
between the Atlantic Ocean and the Canadian Interior, and Was used by Aboriginal and
European communities alike. By enabling the trading of Canada's natural resources, it was
a key facilitator of Canada's development asa county.

1ce owing to its Influence, over a period of time,
a through a major impact upon the region

UOREUIWON SYHO J9Ary eOUBIMET IS

sanjen e620} jeuminD

Guideline: is strongly associated with persons, events, or beliefs of Canadian
significance; or

Explorers including Father Simon Le Moyne, Jean Deshayes and René Robert Cavelier,
Sieur de La Salle were among the fist to discover and map the Upper St. Lawrence River.
The region quickly became the scene of many battles which marked significant points in
the development of Canada asa nation ~ from the Beaver Wars and the French and Indian
War, tothe War of 1812 and Rebellions of 1837. The borders that now exist in the rei
‘can be traced back to these historical conflicts. The river was also a hotbed of activity
during the American Civil War, with agents from both sides operat
Canadian sides of the border.

g

nd

Guideline: contains historical or archacological structures, works oF sites which are
unique, rare or of great antiquity; or

The Lipper St. Lawrence contains numerous historical or archeological structures, works or
sites which are unique, rare or of great antiquity, including Lake St. Francis and Gordon
Island, where archaeological evidence indicates prehistoric Aboriginal use ofthe area;
Sheek (Sheik) Island, home to an aboriginal burial ground that dates back to e.1500 BCE:
possible burial grounds on Grenadier and Belle islands; and Fort Frontenac, first built in
1673 and relating to seventeenth century exploration and the fur trade

Guideline: contains concentrations of historical or archaeological structures, works or
sites which are representative of major themes in Canadian history.

As the concentrated location of numerous heritage buildings from the region, Upper
Canada Village stands out as an excellent example ofa significant era in Canadian history


Page 41 of 80

Other concentrations of historical or archaeological structures, works or sites which are
representative of major themes in Canadian history include Fort Frontenac, Fort Henry,
Martello Towers, Fort Frederick, Cathcart Tower, Mumey Tower and Shoal all of which
have been designated historic sites. Furthermore, the abundance of settlements that line the
Upper St. Lawrence attest to its role in the fur and lumber trades, as well as its historical
role asa summer destination

22.2 Integrity Guidelines: Cultural Integrity Values
In addition to meeting one or more of the above cultural heritage selection guidelines, a
river must also meet cultural integrity guidelines to demonstrate its outstanding cultural
heritage value

Guideline: The nominated section is of sufficient size to include significant
representations of all ofthe features, activities or other phenomena which give the
river its outstanding cultural value;

The nominated area of the St, Lawrence River includes the 200 kilometres that border
Ontario, from the Great Lakes to the Ontario/Quebec border. This portion of the river was
integral tothe development ofthe fur and lumber trades that stimulated the development of
Canada. It was also home to numerous battles and wars that defined the nation. The
‘nominated portion of the river is sufficient in size to include significant representations of
all the features, activites or other phenomena which give the river its outstanding cultural
value.

UORBUIWON SUH JeNRY eoURUMET Ig

sanjen e620} jeuminD

Guideline: The visual character of the nominated section enables uninterrupted
appreciation of atleast one of the periods of the river's historical importance;
Alttiough the river is highly settled, there are many periods ofhistorial importance that

Many remaining forts
serve to represent times of trade as well as Wat. The Thousand Islands Bridge isan historic
site significant border crossing and visual icon. Old mills such as those at La Rue’s Creek
Jones Creek, mark locations of early settlements

@
8

Guideline: The key artefacts and sites comprising the cultural values for which the
river is nominated are unimpaired by impoundments and human land uses; and
Despite a number of impoundments along the St. Lawrence River, there are many
outstanding cultural heritage values along the St. Lawrence River which remain
unimpaired by impoundments and human land uses. Many ofthese artefacts and sites are
protected as designated histoie sites.

Guideline: The water quality of the nominated section does not detract from the
visual character or the cultural experience provided by its cultural values.

The water quality ofthe St. Lawrence River is considered tobe intermediate o good, and
fact has experienced significant improvements in recent decades, There are numerous
areas ofthe river and along its shore that are suitable for fishing and swimming. The water
quality of the nominated seetion does not detract from the visual character or the cultural

experience provided by its cultural values


Page 42.01 80

St. Lawrence River CHRS Nomination

2
8

d


Natural Heritage Values

‘The following describes the outstanding natural heritage features thatthe St. Lawrence
River would contribute to the CHRS. This description is organized according tothe six
themes of the Framework for the Natural Values of Canadian Heritage Rivers, Second.
Edition, 2001.

3.1 Description of Natural Heritage Values

3. THEME

iydrology

Drainage Basin
‘The St. Lawrence system differs from other large rivers in two important ways. One, itis
fed by the Great Lakes and bears the hydrological characteristies of lake runoff rather than
that of free running streams. And two, itis relatively straight, with water from the Great
Lakes occupying the central area of the river bed while the eibutaries hug the shorelines.

‘The St. Lawrence River isthe primary river in the St. Lawrence Drainage Basin, gi
the river a stream number of zero, The western edge of the St. Lawrence Drainage Basin is
located slightly west of Duluth Minnesota and stretches to the Atlantic Ocean, covering an
area of more than 1,344,000 square kilometres if both land and water are included,

“The St. Lawrence-Great Lakes is one of the largest hydrographic systems in the
‘world. I drains more than 25% of the earths reserves of fresh water and influences the
environmental processes of the entre North American continent. ts drainage basin is
the second-largest in Canada, after that ofthe Mackenzie River, and the third-largest in
North America, after that of the Mississippi and Mackenzie rivers.” (Environment
Canada, 2007),

Page 43.0 80,

UORBUIWON SUH JENRY 2oURUMET IS

sanjen eBe0H jesmeN

g

Page 44 01 80

On an international level, the hydrographic system of the St. Lawrence-Great Lakes
‘compares as follows:
thas the world’s thirteenth largest drainage basin, at 610,000 square kilometres
ranks sixteenth for its mean annual flow: 12 600 m3/s just off Quebee City
tis the seventeenth longest, at 3.260 kilometres, from Lake Superior to the Cabot
Stet

Seasonal Variation
Despite the strict regulation of water levels on the Upper St. Lawrence since the

allation of dams in the late 1950s, water levels do vary according to season. Water
levels in the Upper St. Lawrence reach their maximum height sometime between May and
July corresponding to the winter thaw in the Upper Great Lakes. The period of the lowest
\water levels occurs in the early winter, typically around December. The graph below shows
the typical annual water evel readings at the Brockville Station.

Water levels on the Upper St. Lawrence are regulated in accordance to International Joint
Commission guidelines using control dams at Iroquois, Comwall/Massena and atthe east
end of Lake St. Francis, Water levels in the International Rapids section between the
Iroquois Dam and the Cornwall Dam help maintain a buffer between Lake Ontario water
levels and the power dam at Comwall and are adjusted to provide optimal conditions for
power generation and shipping.

UOREUIWON SYHO J9Ary 2DUBIMET IS,

sanjen eBe0H jesmeN

Before regulation of water levels in Lake Ontario and the Upper St. Lawrence in 1960, the
historical water levels were not that different, From 1918 t0 1959, the mean water level for
Lake Ontario and the Upper St. Lawrence west of the Iroquois Dam was 74.70, with a
‘maximum monthly mean of 7.76m and a minimum monthly mean of 73.74. The range of
‘mean water levels was 2.02m pre-1960 compared to 1.90m post-1960,

@
&

Inthe coming years, water levels will also be affected by climate change. Modelling
suggests that the low of water from Lake Ontario into the St. Lawrence River could

Water Level - Brockville Station

:
i
z
4
j
H
i

e008

Page 45.1 80

decrease by 4 to 24 percent annually by 2050, largely due to warmer weather and increased
evapotranspiration,

Water Content
The physical properties ofthe St. Lawrence River vary greatly along the river asa result of
its diverse ecosystems. In terms of the chemical properties ofthe Upper St. Lawrence
River, the system has been greatly affected by the release of toxie substances from
industialization, agriculture and urban development. In the Comwall area, sediment was
found to be contaminated with mercury and other metals, however these concentrations
have declined substantially. The overall health ofthe iver is now considered to be
intermediate to good.

Size of the St. Lawrence River,
The size ofthe St, Lawrence River can be determined by lookis
river, as well asthe discharge volume.

at both the length of the

The length of the St. Lawrence River is somewhat debatable given that there is no clear
start or endpoint tothe river. The most commonly cited length of the river is 1,197
kilometres. The Ontario portion ofthe river is approximately 200 kilometres long.

The discharge volume of the St, Lawrence at Ogdensburg, New York, had an annual
average of 6986 m3/s, with an annual high of 8946 m3/s and an annual Iow of S219 m3/s.

UOREUIWON SYHO J9Ary 2DUBIMET IS,

sanjen eBe0H jesmeN

3.2. THEME 2: Physiography

@
&

Physiographie Regions
The Lipper St. Lawrence River erosses two physiographic regions: the St. Lawrence
Lowlands (specifically the Central St. Lawrence Lowlands) and the Laurentian region of
the Canadian Shield (also known as the Precambrian Shield).

Geological Processes
The Upper St. Lawrence region is comprised of two geologically unique characteristics,
each formed during different time periods: paleozoic geology, which accounts for the

sedimentary rock found around Kingston and east of Brockville; andthe much older
Jgneous and metamorphic rock of the Canadian Shield’s Grenville Province formed during
the mesoproterozoic era, about 1.3 billion years ago during the formation ofthe continent
Rox

tis believed that during the breakup of the supercontinent Rodinia some 570 million years
ago, two rifis formed: the Ottawa-Bonnechere Graben and the St. Lawrence Rift. The St
Lawrence Rift created a large gouge in the earth’s lithosphere along the length of the
present day St. Lawrence River extending into Lake Erie, which has remained ever since
the breakup of Rodinia. The sedimentary rock found in the Upper St. Lawrence region was
formed at this time,


Page 46.0 80,

During the breakup of Rodina, the Shield’s surface (Cashel Peneplain) sagged downwards
allowing the lapetus Sea to inundate the Shield creating broad shallow seas over Southern
Ontario during the Paleozoic era between 300 and 600 million years ago. The inundation of
the lapetus Sea occurred on either side ofthe present day Frontenac Arch, which has
resulted in the varied geology of the Upper St. Lawrence. Sedimentation from the broad
shallow seas on either side of the Frontenac Arch eventually lithified, turning into
limestone plains over many millions of years, Thus to the west of the Frontenac Atch lies
the limestone belonging o the Simcoe Group, while to the east ofthe Ach lies the
limestone and shale of the Ottawa Embayment,

The surficial layer is shaped by bedrock topography with low areas filled with glacial
deposits. Glacial deposits ae largely the result of the Wisconsin Glaciation period which
‘covered Ontario 75,000 BP (before present), with the most recent ice sheet (the Laurentian)
retreating approximately 12,000 BP.

The formation of surficial deposits in the area between Brockville and the Ontario-Quebee
border can be categorized three ways: deposits of the Sangamonian optimum, deposits pre
dating the Late Wisconisinan glacial maxium, and postglacial deposits dating from the en
‘ofthe Late Wisconsian and the beginning of the Holocene. Sub-il deposits found at
Pointe-Fortune, on the Ontario-Quebec border, are representative of deposits from the
Sangamonian optimum, the interglacial period preceding the Wisconsian Glaciation. The
Pointe-Fortune till deposit consists of unfossiiferous sand overlying organic-bearing sand,
‘massive clay and sand-clay. Aside from the Pointe-Fortune deposits, evidence of deposits
predating the last glacial maximum in the Upper St. Lawrence are hard to come by.
Evidence of post glacial deposits is plentiful inthis region, however, largely asa result of
the Champlain Sea's dominance over the area as far west as Brockville

UOREUIWON SYHO J9Ary 2DUBIMET IS,

sanjen eBe0H jesmeN

2
gs

The western and southern parts ofthe Upper St. Lawrence east of Brockville are underlain
by glacial deposits (ill). Wave action removed the silt and clay from the tl, leaving behind
sand and gravel

Hydrogeology
The floor ofthe St. Lawrence River consists ofa series of terraces and stepped plains
formed by the littoral and fluvial processes during the regression of the Champlain Sea at
the end of the Wisconsinan Era

The surficial deposits ofthe St, Lawrence Hydrogeological Region east of Kingston are
‘composed primarily of sand deposits which originated either as beaches of the glacial era
Champlain Sea or as high terraces formed during the eatly stages of the Ottawa and St.
Lawrence Rivers. Water quality in this region varies from less than SOOppm Total
Dissolved Solid (TDS) in the west toa range of 500 to 2500ppm TDS in the east. Yields
are commonly from 0.5 to 2 litres per second.

The St. Lawrence Lowlands Hydrogeological Region, an area of low relief and humid
climate, is underlain by unfolded Paleozoic rocks. This region is divided into thee distinct
areas by Precambrian rocks. The westem part, which comprises most of Southwestern


Page 47 of 80

Ontario, is separated from the central part by a projection of the Canadian Shield region
inersecting the St. Lawrence River to the east of Kingston, The central paris similarly
separated from the eastern part by the Canadian Shield region crossing at the confluence of
the Ottawa and the St. Lawrence rivers. Groundwater occurs in the pore spaces and
fractures in these rocks, with inter-granula flow being dominant inthe sandstones and
fracture flow predominating in the carbonates.

Topography
The natural flow of the St. Lawrence River is influenced by the relief and sloping eviden
inthe region’s topography, however, it has been drastically altered since the damming of
the river in 1959, Gone are the mighty Long Sault Rapids. Since the building of the dams
at Comwall/Massena and the Iroquois Dam, the descent of the river's flow has been
levelled off. Consequently, the rapids have been flooded and a reservoir lake named Lake
Si. Lawrence has formed upriver of Moses-Saunders Power Darn

33° THEME 3:

iver Morphology

Valley Types
The walls ofthe St. Lawrence Valley vary according tothe river's bedrock geology. In the
Frontenae Arch where the Canadian Shield is prominent, straight slope valley walls are
evident. Inthe area east of the Frontenae Arch (known as the Central St. Lawrence
Lowlands), where sedimentary rock underlies the river, the valley walls are much broader
and far less defined,

UOREUIWON SYHO J9Ary 2DUBIMET IS,

sanjen eBe0H jesmeN

2
&

Channel Patterns
The Upper St. Lawrence is a relatively straight river, with few bends in its couse. Those
bends that do exist tend to be very slight in nature, The portion of the river betwee!
Prescott and Lake St. Francis is more sinuous in nature. In this portion, the river displays
‘characteristies somewhat like a delta where it empties into Lake St, Francis. The river's
flow in this area has been drastically altered due to damming of the St. Lawrence at
Cornwall

The Lipper St. Lawrence has two lakes on is course to the Quebee portion of the River
Lake St. Lawrence rests above the Moses-Saunders Power facility. It is a man-made lake
‘created when the damming of the St. Lawrence was completed in 1959. Lake St. Francis,
\hich lies in Ontario, Quebec and New York, is not man-made; however, the present water
level ofthe lake is controlled by dams at each end of the lake

Channel Profile
Historically the horizontal profile of the St. Lawrence could be considered stepped, being
level in some spots with areas of steep decline and rapids. However, since the damming of
the St. Lawrence, the infamous rapids on the Upper St. Lawrence have been flooded. There
are areas of swift water, particularly where the underwater waterfalls occur in the Raft
"Narrows section near Ivy Lea.


Fluvial Landforms
One of the more noteworthy phenomena resulting from the influence of climate on fluvial
activity is the “glacial” process that occurs every spring. Tributaries ate frozen during the
Winter; flooding and stream flow during spring break-up results inthe transport of debris
and shore erosion by seasonal ice.

Over thousands of years the river has flowed over the underlying bedrock of the St
Lawrence River. Variation in bedrock resistance in the Frontenac Axis region where the
river passes over Precambrian Shield has resulted inthe formation ofthe picturesque
Thousand Islands.

3.4 THEME 4: Biotic Environments

Aquatic Ecosystems
The Upper St. Lawrence has various aquatic ecosystems, including: riverine systems, lake
systems and wetland systems along its course. The river displays characterstis of a
rmidale-order riverine system, Common characteristics of a middle-order riverine system
‘ude: sediment transport, broad seasonal water temperatures, variable discharge and
‘common invertebrates comprised of collectors and grazers.

The Lipper St. Lawrence flows through two lacustrine systems: Lake St. Lawrence and
Lake St. Francis. As mentioned previously, Lake St. Lawrence is the result of damming at
Cornwall and Lake St. Francis, which existed prior to European settlement, is also
regulated with dams at each end of the lake

A number of wetlands exist along the Upper St. Lawrence, many of which have been
designated provincial or regional areas of natural or scientific interest (ANSI) by the

Wetland

Page 48.0 80,

UOREUILON SYHO JaAry eoUBIMeT IS

sanjen eBe0H jesmeN

2
6

Ministry of Natural Resources, These wetlands ate highly biologically diverse
environments and are erucal forthe maintenance of healthy river ecosystem, In the entire
SL Lawrence Valley, wetlands account for 9 percent of total surface area, with marshes and
peatlands accounting for less than | percent. Thete has been significant wetland loss since
1800 along the Upper St. Lawrence.

Terrestrial Ecosystems
The Upper St. Lawrence River is part of two terrestrial ecosystem zones (or eo-regions):
Mixed Wood Plains and Boreal Shield. The Mixed Wood Plains can be further dived into
two sub-regions: Manitoulin-Lake Simooe and the St. Lawrence Lowlands, The Frontenac
Arch of the Algonquin-Lake Nipissing sub-region is within the Boreal Shield ecosystem.

‘The Manitoulin — Lake Simeoe Eeo-region: This eco-region is located around
‘on the limestone plains to the east of the Frontenae Atch and only constitutes a
portion of the proposed designation length for the river. This region is primarily dominated
by agricultural land cover, with significant areas of mixed wood forest, successional
woodland and serub,

The St. Lawrence Lowlands Eco-region: This eco-tegion to the east of the Frontenac
Arch sits on top of the sandstone and shale ereated by ancient marine sediments. Soil in
this area tends to be suitable for a diverse eco-system. Similar to the area around Kingston,
this region is primarily dominated by agricultural land cover, with significant areas of
mixed wood forest, successional woodland and serub.

The Frontenac Arch Eeo-region: This eco-region sits on the Canadian Shield. It acts as
the connection corridor between Algonquin highlands and the Adirondacks. The Frontenac
Arch ecosystem differs from its neighbouring ecosystems for a number of reasons: thin
acidic soil chemistry limits some plants and animals in favour of others; and the Thousand
Islands region is also regulated by a micro-climate which contributes to differences in
ecosystem composition,

Blandings's Turtle

Page 49.01 80,

UORBUIWON SUH JENRY 2oURUMET IS

sanjen eBe0H jesmeN

i
&

Page 50 01 80,

3S THEME 5: Vegetation

‘The fast flow and the depth ofthe St. Lawrence generally restrict the growth of in-stream
vegetation algae and macrophytes (larger aquatic plants). Wetlands along the banks of
the St. Lawrence and among the islands also provide an example of instream vegetation,

‘Variation in the tees and shrubs found along the St. Lawrence generally coincide with a
particular eco-region. The Manitoulin-Lake Simcoe eco-region, which can be seen around
Kingston, displays examples of mixed wood forest, The dominant species are sugar maple,
beech, eastern hemlock, red oak and basswood. The Frontenac Arch eco-region is typified
by sugar maple, beech, basswood, red and white ash, yellow bitch, red maple, eastern
hemlock, white pine, and red, white and bur oak trees. The St. Lawrence Lowlands eco-
region east of Brockville displays examples of sugar maple, yellow bitch, eastern hemlock,
and eastern white pine, red pine, eastemn white cedar and red oak. Wetter sites support red
‘maple, black ash, white spruce and tamarack.

‘The Upper St. Lawrence is home to a number of rare plant spectes, St. Lawrence Islands
‘ational Park, which includes more than 20 island properties in the St. Lawrence River
between Kingston and Brockville, is home tothe following species identified as either
endangered or threatened: American ginseng, blun-lobed woodsia, butternut, eastern
prairie fringed orchid and deerberry.

UOREUILON SYHO JaAry eoUBIMeT IS

sone, aBeqV0H jesnIeN

&

3.1.6 THEME

‘The Upper St. Lawrence has a diverse range of fauna within its various eco-tegions, which,
contribute to the biodiversity of the river. The river hosts a wide variety of fish, mammals
tnd birds, reptiles, amphibians and invertebrates, some of which are extremely rare,

Upper Canada Migratory Bird Sanctuary

lay Y,

Upper Canada Sanctuaire des
Migratory Oiseaux Migrateurs

Bird Sanctuary du Haut-Canada


Page 51 of 80

Fish: Due the numerous different types of water habitats, the St. Lawrence supports a large
variety of fish. Ithas been estimated that there are over 88 species of fish in the Thousand
Islands region alone (Ross, 1983), Smallmouth bass, northern pike and muskellunge have
‘waditionally lured sport fishers tothe area, Southern fish such as bowfins and long-nosed
gar can also be observed inthe river. The mighty sturgeon has been a fixture on the river,
particularly Lake St. Francis where a large commercial fishery operated for many years
before the decline ofthe sturgeon. I is now a threatened species.

Mammals: The Uppet St. Lawrence has seen a considerable shift in mammal species si
the arrival of Europeans during the seventeenth century. Cougars, lynx, moose, martens,
‘wolverines, black bears and timber wolves were all part ofthe Upper St. Lawrence
landscape. These mammals, however, have disappeared from the area as a result of
settlement, trapping and land clearing. Today, common mammals include: the white-tailed
deer, snowshoe hare, coyote, red and grey squirrel and chipmunks. Examples of rare
animals in the area include the grey fox, which returned to the area in 1942 after a 300-
‘year absence, and the occasional opossum has been sighted in the Thousand Islands (Ross,
1982).

Birds: The Upper St. Lavwrence is host to many different bied types, in part due to its
location on a migratory bied route. The most identifiable bird on the Upper St. Lawrence is
likely the blue heron, which is particularly prevalent in the Thousand Islands Regios

UOREUIWON SYHO J9Ary 2DUBIMET IS,

sanjen eBe0H jesmeN

Replile and Amphibians: The Upper St. Lawrence River, particularly the Thousand Islands

‘region, has one of the richest populations of reptiles and amphibians in Canada. This area
tension zone” where many populations ate at theit southernmost or

northernmost range. A notable example isthe black rat snake, Canada’s largest reptile and

aa threatened species,

-
8

‘The Upper St. Lawrence is home to a number of rare animal species. St. Lawrence Islands
‘National Park identifies the following resident species as either endangered or threatened:
Eastern Loggerhead Shrike, Henslow’s Sparrow; King Rail, Norther Bobwhite, Blan
‘Turtle, Eastern Rat Snake, Golden- Winged Warbler, Least Biter, Peregrine Falcon
Pugnose Shiner and Stinkpot Turtle. Species of special concern include: American Eel,
Bridle Shiner, Broad Beech Fern, Cerulean Warbler, Eastern Milksnake, Eastern Yellow
Breasted Chat, Five- Lined Skink, Grass Pickerel, Lake Sturgeon, Monarch Butterfly,
‘Northern Map Turtle, Northern Ribbonsnake, Red Headed Woodpecker, Short-Eared Owl
and Yellow Rail


Page 52 of 80
3.2 Assessment of Natural Heritage Values

The Ontatio portion ofthe St. Lawrence River is
natural heritage values. Although the river meets the CHRS Selection Guidelines for
Natural Heritage Values, as required for the nomination of Canadian Heritage Rivers, the
SL Lawrence River is unable to meet certain Natural Integrity Values as required for

The following assessment applies Selection Guidelines for Natural Heritage Values an
Natural Value Integrity Guidelines tothe St. Lawrence River. I also explains which
Natural Integrity Values the St, Lawrence River does not possess, thereby preventing it
from being nominated on the basis ofits natural heritage values

3.2 Selection Guidelines: Natural Heritage Values
Ouistanding Canadian natural heritage value will be recognized when a river and its
immediate environment:

Guideline: is an outstanding example of river environments as they are affected by
the major stages and processes in the Earth’s evolutionary history that are
represented in Canada; or

The Upper St. Lawrence traverses an area that represents more than one billion years of
evolutionary history. It erosses two physiographic regions and is comprised of two
geologically unique characteristics

UORBUIWON SUH JENRY 2oURUMET IS

sanjen eBe0H jesmeN

Guideline: contains outstanding representations of significant ongoing fuvial,
geomorphological or biologieal processes; oF

The Lipper St. Lawrence continues to experience seasonal variations in water levels despite
the strict regulations of water levels along the river. Further, the influence of climate on
fluvial activity is illustrated by the glacial process that occurs every spring. Tributaries are
frozen during the winter, while flooding and stream flow during spring break-up results in
the transport of debris and shore erosion by seasonal ice

é
&

Guideline: contains along its course unique, rare or outstandi
‘and abiotic natural phenomena, formations or features: or
The Frontenac Axis, or Frontenac Arch, isa narrow isthmus that links two important North
American landforms ~ the Canadian Shield and the Adirondack Mountains. This

\hich crosses through the nominated section ofthe river, creates a continuous ecosystem
and provides habitat for a high diversity of reptiles and amphibians, as well as a number of
rare species. Is also the only place in Ontario where piteh pine grows.

‘examples of biotic

Guideline: contains along its course habitats of rare oF endangered species of plat
and animals, including outstanding concentrations of plants and animals of Cai
Interest and significance.

The Upper St. Lawrence is home to 31 species at risk,
Henslow’s Sparrow, peregrine falcon and monarch butterfly. The river is also e

luding the black rat snake,
imated to


support more than 88 species of fish inthe Thousand Islands area alone. In 1942, the area
saw the return of the grey fox, after a 300-year absence,

3.2.2 Integrity Guidelines: Natural Integrity Values
In addition to meeting one or more of the above natural heritage value guidelines, a river
‘must also meet natural integrity guidelines to meet CHRS criteria for designat

Guideline: The nominated section is of sufficient size to Include significant
representations of all of the natural processes, features, or other phenom
ive the river its outstanding natural value;

The nominated area of the St, Lawrence River includes the 200 kilometres that border
Ontario, from the Great Lakes to the Ontario/Quebec border. It includes all the natural
processes, features and phenomena which give the river its outstanding natural value.

which

Guideline: The nominated section includes those ecosystem components that
contribute significantly to the provision of habitat for species in need of protection;
The nominated section includes those ecosystem components that contribute significantly
to the provision of habitat for species in need of protection, including riverine systems,
Takes and wetlands, as well as mixed wood and boreal forest.

Guideline: There are no human-made impoundments within the nominated section;
There are various impoundments within the nominated section, particularly those
associated with the construction of the St. Lawrence Seaway and hydroelectrie stations.

Guideline: All key elements and ecosystem components are unaffected by
impoundments located outside the nominated section;

The St. Lawrence River is subject to various impoundments, even outside the nominated
section. Protected parklands along the river, however, still maintain a igh level of natural
ecological integrity

Guideline: The water in the nominated section is uncontaminated to the extent that its
natural aquatic ecosystem is intact; and

The water in the nominated section has been heavily affected by the various land and water
uses in the atea, The area most contaminated has been part of a Remedial Action Plan
process since 1988, and water quality is now considered moderate to good.

Guideline: The natural aesthetic character of the nominated section is free of, or not
adversely affected by, human developments.

There are areas within the nominated section ofthe St. Laws
not adversely affected by, human developments, There are, however, areas will
‘nominated section that have been adversely affected by development.

River that are free of, and
nthe

Page 53 1 80

UORBUIWON SUH JENRY 2oURUMET IS

sanjen eBe0H jesmeN

B

Wetland Areas
Kingston to Ontario Border

08 Jo abe

Page 55 of 80

St. Lawrence River CHRS Nomination

©
g

Recreational Values

‘The following section describes the outstanding recreational values that the
portion of the St. Lawrence River will contribute to the CHRS. The section is organized
according to the following categories: boating, angling, swimming and water contact
sports, water-associated activities, winter activities, and natural and cultural heritage
appreciation

4.1 Description of Recreational Values
411 Boating

‘The Upper St. Lawrence River has hosted recreational boating enthusiasts since the late
1800s. Numerous marinas dot the shore, providing mooring for both power boats an
sailboats. With about 1800 islands inthe Thousand Islands atea, boaters enjoy stunnin
scenery as well as historic sites along the way. The options for canoeing and recreational
kayaking are abundant and available for almost any skill level, including the Thousand
Islands Water Trails, a series of water trails of varying lengths that take paddlers to various
islands and points of interest.

412° Angling

‘With 88 species of fish, including about 20 popular game fish such as small and large
‘mouth bass, northern pike and pickerel, fishing has been a popular recreational activity in
the region for more than a century. The muskellunge, a large fish from the pike family, is
‘one of the most popular game fish, attracting sport anglers to the region in the summer
‘months, Numerous guides and outfitters take out fishing groups along the Upper St

Laws

Page 56.01 80

UORBUIWON SUH JENRY 2oURUMET Ig

‘sonje, yeuonesiooy

i
ES)

4.1.3. Swimming and Water Contact Sports

There are a number of sandy beaches along the Upper St, Lawrence River, including Mille
Rot Glengarry Park and Brown's Bay, which atract swimmers during the
summer months. Water skiing, wakeboarding and water tubing are also popular activities
along the river, with numerous outiters supplying the necessary equipment,

es Beac!

The Lipper St. Lawrence is one of the world’s best fieshwater diving spots for shipwrecks,
atracting divers from all over the world, Numerous outfitters supply equipment and take
‘out tours to see remnants ofthe region's history

4.14 Water-Associated Activities

The Upper St. Lawrence River is lined with trails, providing the opportunity to enjoy the
\ater from a different perspective. Among the many waterfront trails are the St. Lawrence
Recreational Path, which extends mote than 75 kilometres from Morrisburg to Lancaster,
the majority ofthe trail follows the St. Lawrence River shoreline and is open year-round.
Activities on the wail include hiking, walk and eyeling. The Thousand Islands Bike Path
runs for 37 kilometres along the Thousand Islands Parkway, from Gananoque to
Brockville, These tails make up an extended Waterfront Trail that follows the St
Lawrence River from the Quebec border to Lake Ontario

A number of campgrounds are run by Parks of the St. Lawrence and St. Lawrence Islands
National Park, providing various types of camping throughout the region, including canoe-

camping on the parks islands, The Uppet St. Lawrence also has a strong history of duck
hunting which continues today. The area attracts goose and duck hunters from Canada an
the US.

Page 57 of 80

UORBUIWON SUH JENRY 2oURUMET Ig

‘sanjep Jeuoneaooy,

-
&

Page 58.1 80

4.1.5 Winter activities

A number of trails are open year-round in the area, The St. Lawrence Recreatio
example, becomes an excellent trail for snowshoeing during the winter months.
Snowmobiling and cross-country skiing are also popular pasttimes along the shores ofthe
Upper St. Lawrence.

4.1.6 Natural Heritage Appreciation

The Lipper St. Lawrence is rife with opportunities for natural heritage appreciation, The
Upper Canada Migratory Bird Sanctuary, St. Lawrence Islands National Park and
Frontenac Atch Biosphere provide access to protected spaces from which to view and
interpret the diverse ecosystems of the area, The Frontenac Arch Biosphere is one of 1S
UNESCO-designated biospheres in Canada,

The natural rock bay of Half Moon Bay isa unique geological feature that has attracted

VOREUIWON SYHO J9ARy 2DUBIMET IS,

2
Wists since telat 18005 2
4:17 Caatarat Heetage Appreciation H
“The culture and history of the Upper St. Lawrence is marked by numerous museums, 5
sites to attract visitors wishing fo eam about he ich ultra heritage ofthe region, 5
into specie peopl, locations and event of historical importance inthe region 49

Some of the larger cultural heritage attractions along the Upper St. Lawrence include:
Upper Canada Village, an elaborate heritage park which recreates examples of life in the
1860s; Fort Wellington, an original British fort built between 1838-1839 to defend the St.
Lawrence shipping route; and Crysler's Farm Battlefield National Historie Site, whieh
‘marks a critical moment inthe history of Canada. Among the region's many events are the
Akewesasne International Powwow, Long Sault Regatta, Medieval Festival at Upper
Canada Village, St. Lawrence Shakespeare Festival and Thousand Islands Jazz Festival

Not all the artefacts of the Upper St. Lawrence's history are found above land; there is
‘much to be found underwater. The popularity of scuba diving in the area gives access to a
rich cultural history, witha great many sunken teasures to explore. There isa long list of
ships found atthe bottom of the St. Lawrence, including: the Comet, a side-wheel steamer
builtin 1848; the Iroquois, built by the French in 1759 and captured by the British atthe
battle of Fort de Levis; and the Sir Robert Peel, allegedly stormed and set fire by the pirate
Cpiain Bill Johnson,


4.2 Assessment of Recreational Values

The Ontatio portion of the St. Lawrence River provides excellent opportunites for
recreation and meets all of the recreational selection and integrity guidelines as outlined by
curs.

42.1. Selection Guidelines: Recreational Values
Outstanding Canadian recreational value will be recognized when a river and its immediate
e possess a combination of riverselated recreational opportunities and related
natural andior cultural values, which together provide an opportunity for outstanding
recreational experiences

Guideline: Recreational opportunities include water-based activities such as eanoeing
and other forms of boating, swimming and angling, and other activities such as
camping, hiking, wildlife viewing and natural and cultural appreciation, which may
be part of a river-touring experience.

The Upper St. Lawrence River includes the full range of water-based activities such as
boating, angling, camping, hiking, and natural and cultural appreciation, which work
together to form a unique river-touring experience. There are currently

‘ours, both led and self-guided, which include these features.

Guideline: Natural values include natural visual aestheties, and physical assets such,
as sufficient flow, navigability, rapids, accessibility and suitable shoreline,

The Upper St. Lawrence includes a range of natural visual aesthetics, as well as suitable
flow, navigability, accessibility and shorelines to make it appropriate for a full range of
\water sports and water-associated activities.

42.2. Integrity Guidelines: Recreational Integrity Values
(0 meeting both of the recreational value guidelines, fora river to be judged to

Guideline: The river possesses water of a quality suitable for contact recreational
activities, Including those recreational opportunities for which i is nominated;

The water quality along the river is suitable for contact recreational activities, such as
swimming, scuba diving and paddling, making it suitable forthe recreational opportunities
foe which itis nominated.

Guideline: The river's visual appearance is capable of providing Fiver travellers with
‘a continuous natural and cultural experience, or a combined natural and cultural
experience, without significant interruptions by modern human intrusions; and
Although there are towns and cities along the river, there is also extensive uninterrupted
natural space. Furthermore, some of the towns and villages provide a combined natural and
cultural experience in themselves. The river's visual appearance is therefore capable of
providing river travellers with many areas of diverse continuous natural and cultural

Page 59 01 80,

UORBUIWON SUH JENRY 2oURUMET Ig

‘sonje, yeuonesiooy

a
3

Page 6001 80,

experience without significant interruptions by modem human intrusi

Guideline: The river is capable of supporting recreational uses without significant loss
of, or impact on, its natural oF cultural values or its visual character.

The Lipper St. Lawrence River is capable of supporting recreational uses without
significant loss of, or impact on, its natural or cultural values or its visual character.
Recreational activities ate alteady popular on the river and have been for more th

years

100

UORBUIWON SUH JENRY 2oURUMET Ig

‘sonje, yeuonesiooy

2

Conclusion

‘The Nomination Document presents the case supporting the inclusion of the Ontario
portion ofthe St. Lawrence River into the Canadian Heritage River System based on the
river's cultural heritage values. The Upper St. Lawrence las long had a central role in

nation-building events; the story of Canada can be told along this waterway.

‘The Ontario portion ofthe St. Lawrence River would address recognized gaps in the
‘Canadian heritage river network. It erosses both international and provincial boundaries;
has been the backdrop for Aboriginal and European cross-cultural contact; boasts
distinctive architecture inspired by the river; and is home to well-developed and nationally
recognized land-based tourism attraction

‘This document also offers compelling evidence of the natural heritage and recreational
values of the Upper St. Lawrence River. Because CHRS Guidelines for Natural Integrity
‘Values cannot be met, however, the river isnot eligible to be nominated on the basis of its
natural values,

‘The Québec portion ofthe St. Lawrence is no less worthy a candidate for nomination based
‘on its impressive cultural heritage values. The option remains open for the Québec
‘government fo pursue this candidacy in the years ahead.

Future designation of the Ontario portion ofthe St. Lawrence will build on the considerable
‘community support and momentum that exists on both the Canadian and American sides of
the river. There already exists a strong grassroots commitment to sustainable living and
stewardship of cultural and natural values built by initiatives such as the Frontenac Arch
Biosphere Reserve. Disparate communities inthe region are working together and building
networks,

Designating the Ontario portion ofthe St. Lawrence River asa heritage river will build
upon this strong foundation in the interests of protecting, enhancing and publicizing the
cultural and natural heritage of this special and storied rive.

Page 61 of 80

UOREUILON SYHO JeARY eOUEIMeT IS

Luojsnjoueg

a
8

References

Creighton, Donald. The Empire ofthe St. Lawrence. Toronto: Macmillan, 1956.

Day, Aaron N, and Kingsbury, Dan, A River Rat's Guide to the Heritage of the Upper St
Lawrence River: A preliminary Heritage River Research Document; working towards a
Canadian Heritage Rivers System designation for the Upper St. Lawrence River. Prepared
for The Thousand Islands Area Residents’ Association. Summer 2008.

Gowans, Alan, Building Canada: An Architectural History of Canadian Life. Toronto:
Oxford University Press, 1966.

‘Hamilton, Janice. The St Lawrence River: History, Highway and Habitat, Montreal,
Canada: Redlader Publishing, 2006,

JFohinson, Clifton, The Picturesque St. Lawrence. Toronto: Macmillan Co, 1910.
Snow, Dean R. The Iroquois. Cambridge: Blackwell, 1994.

‘Morris, John, Morrises’ History of Prescott, 1800 ~ 2000. Prescot: St. Lawrence Printing
Co, 2001

Osbome, Brian. The Thousand Islands Region, 1650 ~ 1850: A Study of Exploration,
Settlement and Development. Parks Canada, 1976.

Ross, Don. Discovering the Thousand Islands. Kingston: Quarry Press, 2001

‘Smith, Susan Weston. The First Summer People: The Thousand Islands 1650 ~ 1910,
Toronto: Boston Mills Press, 1993

‘Thompson, Shawn. A River Rat's Guide to the Thousand Islands. Erin ON: Boston Mills
Press, 1996,

‘Thousand Islands Watershed Land Trust. Mallorytown Landing & Grenadier Islan
bitp:/wwwAiwItca/mallorytown_landing hum. Last accessed February 17, 2011

Page 6201 80

LUOREUION SYHO JeARY eoUBIMET IS

seoualajey

2
8

Page 63 01 80

Appendix A

List of the National Historic Plaques along the Upper St Lawrence River

Battle of Crysler’s Farm
‘The Battle of the Windmill

Bellevue

Bethune-Thompson House

Bishop Alexander Maedonell 1762-1840
(Charles Edward Poulett Thomson 1799-1841
Chimney Island (Bridge Island)
‘The Coming of the Mohawks
‘The Construction of the St, Law
‘The Crawford Purchase

Christ Chureh, Her Majesty's Chapel Royal of the Mohawk

ee Seaway

UORUIWON SUH JeNRY eoURUMET Ig

The Firs Meeting ofthe Executive Council of Upper Canada z
Fort De Levis 3
Fort Frontenac Ea
Fort Henry 3
Fort Welling

Glengarry Cairn
Her Majesty's Chapel of the Mobawks
Inverarden
Kingston City Hall
Kingston Custom House
Kingston Dry Dock
Kingston Fortficat
Kingston Navy Yard
Legislatute ofthe Province of Canada 1841-1844
Lieutenant-Colonel John Macdonell (Aberchalder) e. 1750-1809
‘Mary (Molly) Brant (Tekonwatonti) (ea. 1736-1796)
Point Frederick Buildings
Pointe au Baril
Raid on Gananoque 1812
Rebellion of 1837
Right Reverend John Strachan 1778-1867
Saint-Louis
Sir Charles Bagot 1781-1843
n Alexander Macdonald 1815-1891
n Alexander Macdonald 1815-1891
n Alexander Macdonald 1815-1891
n Alexander Macdonald 1815-1891

g


Sit John Johnson House
Sir William Buell Richards 1815-1889
‘The Six Nations.

Southwold Earthworks

St. Raphael's Ruins

‘Thayendanega (Joseph Brant) 1742-1807
‘Tom Longboat 1886-1949

United Empire Loyalists

‘War of 1812

‘The Williamsburg Canals

‘The Wole Island Township Hall

Page 64 of 80

LUOREUIWON SYHO JOAry eoUEIMET IS

‘seoipueddy

Pa
a

Appendix B

List of the Provincial Historie Plaques along the Upper St Lawrence
River

Abel Stevens

‘Abyouwaeghs John Brant 1794-1832

Battle of Crysler’s Farm 1813

Bethune-Thompson House

Bishop Alexander Maedonell 1762-1840

Blockhouse Island

Captain Samuel Anderson 1736-1836

Capture of Ogdensburg 1813
Cameron 1820-1888

Chist Chureh 1843

Cogwagee Tom Longboat 1886-1949

‘The College of Tona

Colonel Edvard Jessup 1735-1816

Colonel Joel Stone 1749-1833,

Comnyrall Grammar School

District Court-House and Gaol 1833

E, Pauline Johnson 1861-1913

Fort Henry

Fort Wellingtor

‘The Forwarding Trade at Prescott

‘The Founding of Cardinal

‘The Founding of Cornwall

Fraserfield

‘The French Presence in Comwall

‘The French Presence in Lafontaine

Gananoque Town Hall

George Chaffey 1848-1932

‘The Glengarry Emigration of 1786

‘The Glengarry Fencibles

Government House 1832

Heathfield

Hillerof 1853,

Holstein Friesian Catle in Ontario

James Morris 1798-1865

‘Melatosh 1777-1846

sown 1789

Justus Sherwood 1747-1798

‘The King's Royal Regiment of New York

Page 65 of 80

UORUIWON SUH JeNRY eoURUMET Ig

soorpuaddy

ey
&

Page 6601 80

Lost Villages of the St. Lawren
Louis de Buade, Comte de Frontenac et de Palluau 16
Loyalist Landing at Cataracoui 1784

‘The MacMillan Emigration 1802

Militia Garrison 1837-38

‘The Mohawk Institute

Molly Brant

‘The North West Company

(Ogle Robert Gowan 1803-1876

‘Oronbiyatekha (Peter Martin) (1841-1907)

‘The Parish of St. Raphael

“Pirate” Fohnston 1782-1870

Point Frederick
Prescott Barracks a
Rebellion of 1837
René-Amable Boucher 1735-1812

René-Robert Cavelier de La Salle at Cataracoui

‘The Reverend Johann Samuel Schwerdtfeger 1734-1803,
‘The Reverend John Strachan in Comwvall

‘The Reverend Jobn Stuart 1740-1811

Roebuck Indian Village Site

‘The Royal Military College of Canada

‘The Rush-Bagot Agreement

St. Paul's 1785 HLM. Chapel of the Mohawks

St. Paul's Chureh

Senator George T. Fulford 1852-1905

Sir James Pliny Whitney 1843-1914

Sir Oliver Mowat 1820-1903

Sit Richard Bonnyeastle 1791-1847

‘The Stone Frigate

Summerhill 1839

‘Thousand Islands International Bridge

‘The Typhus Epidemic 1847

William Buell, Sr. 1751-1832

698

Hospital

LUOREUIWON SYHO JOAry eoUEIMET IS

‘seoipueddy

a
g

Page 67 of 80

November 25, 2013

REPORT TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING COMMITTEE ~
December 3, 2013

2013-141-12
FESTIVAL & EVENTS COORDINATOR DAVID C. PAUL

DIRECTOR OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM.
RECOMMENDATION

‘THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee recommend to Council the
‘establishment of a festival and events reserve account being $115,000 +/- surplus
‘generated from profit of the Tall Ships Festival- 1812 Tour, and further,

‘THAT the City enter into a three year contractual agreement with the Brockville and
District Chamber of Commerce/Tourism Office for a Festival and Event Coordinator
position with terms and conditions to be presented to Council ata later date for
ratification

PURPOSE

‘To provide supplementary financial assistance to the Brockville and District Chamber of
‘Commerce/Brockville Tourism Office to enable the Chamber to create a designated
Festival and Events Coordinator for the facilitation on all existing festivals and special
‘events and the potential introduction of another signature festival for the community

BACKGROUND

‘+ The Tall Ships 1812 Tour, First Port of Call Brockville, generated a financial
surplus of approximately $115,000 + during this year’s June 2013 weekend.

‘+ The Tall Ships Festival Committee responsible for this successful venue have
publically expressed to the Council and community the desire for a new position
to facilitate both existing and future festivals and special events for Brockville

‘+ There is no intent to currently host another Tall Ships festival, and further, the
touring of tall ships occur on a cycle of 3 to 5 years as organized by Tall Ships
America,

‘+ The subject recommendation would enable all current and future festivals and
special events to secure qualified coordination and guidance on hosting for their
events.

Page 68 1 80
2013-141-12
FESTIVAL & EVENTS COORDINATOR Page 2

+ Most festvals/events rely heavily on volunteers who often suffer “bum out’, and
2s such, the constant recruitment by charities and special interest groups
seeking new personnel.

‘* Several Ontario communities of similar population already provide this support
function as noted on the Attachment A.

‘+ The contracting of such a position as an extension of the existing Tourism
Service Agreement between the City and the Brockville & District Chamber of
Commerce/Tourism Office is a logical option based on the success and
‘experience documented by the Chamber on both market promotion, visitor
‘services and hosting of several special events.

* The Chamber of Commerce is aware of the recommendation and is favourably
disposed to provide this supplementary service.

+ The Chamber will provide any additional salary and benefits necessary to secure
‘a qualified candidate and commit to the three year term.

‘= A full job description including the negotiated final terms will be presented to
Couneil prior to ratification

Attachment A

‘Survey of Communities with Festival and Event Coordinators

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATION
‘There currently are surplus revenues of approximately $104,000 in the Tall Ships
‘account with an additional final $15,000 final payment forthcoming from the Provincial

Government. The estimate after final adjustments will leave a balance of approximately
$115,000.

Director of Economic Development Director of Corporate Services

a

City Manager


Page 69 of 80,

12013-141-12-Report to EOP -Festval Events Coordinator Appendix A

| vent Coordinator
7) Te canta Smtr
Arerstbute Town 278) |
corny i ssa eS
adores Guindy i 99 |
“Brockville - ‘ity 23,957 Yes Considering hiring Event
Sor
Cobourg - Town 18,210 Yes "Yes ~ Event Coordinator
aur nope
Calingvood Town 3s0) Yes es Coatr
‘arc!
Elliot Lake “Gty ~aasa9|
rin “Town 11,248 -
tet he a we
Grimsby “Town 23,937, Yes No
‘Huntsville ‘Town 18,280 =
“gest Town 1760
ii Acoso id — nam
Town 20,908 7
tse Free a |
a — Ye-sipewerat |
Nt pec
ten Mina
Twn oN
|napame reerpaee) Tow —
‘Orangeville “Town 25925 ~Yes=250" event
| conta“
“oriia ‘cy 30,259 ves ‘Yes ~ Manager of Special

Projects - Municipal


Page 70 1 80
12013-141-12-Report to EDP -Festval Events Coordnater Append A

[owen Sound ry 278] Yes- ny

Pelham Town 16,155,

‘Pembroke ‘Oty 13,830, Yes | No

Petawawa Town 146s i |

For Caborne ‘aw same] vee ~~*Ces 2 Muni vet
P| coors

Port Hope - [= | 16390 Ye Yes- Chamber

‘Prince eaward (Pleton) | eity | 25,496 7

Saugeen Shores (ot Elgsovthmpton) | Fown ame ‘es-chamber

Tecumseh Town ama Ye

|

| remiskaming shores (Halleyoury-New Liskeard) City 10,442, Yes

Thorold jaw 13,224

‘Talsonburg |

[ener stoutae tom | 24300) -


Page 71 of 80

‘Summary

Festival and Events Coordinator Position - 2014

Salary - Tall Ships Legacy Funding

‘$115 000.00 /3 years = $38 300.00

Main Objectives:

1

It would be the responsibilty of the Special Festival and Events Coordinator to
research all existing festivals and events and make recommendations for
improvement, growth, and execution.

‘They would be responsible for researching and creating a proposal of a New
[Annual Signature Event or Festival as well as “shoulder or off Season” events
including Sports Tourism opportunites.

‘The Festival and Events Coordinator would be responsible for the creation of a
Consistent performance tracking model forall festivals and events to help in
‘analytical analysis and future planning

Jan. 28, 2014

Prepared by:
‘Annie MacDonald,
Executive Director
Brockville and District Chamber of Commerce

Steve Wei

BROCKVILLE "=" "#29
AND DISTRICT  ®repares for:

Chamber of Commerce  Exsnensa beveagren,

City of Brockville

Page 72.01 80

POSITION DESCRIPTION
Preeti
Brockville and District Chamber of Commerce Seperet

Position: Tourism Festiva and Events Coordinator

Reports to:

Tourism Manager

Required: Knowledge of tourism, sustainable tourism and promotional

principles and practices; festival and events coordination, and the
Tourism industry; of tourism trends; and of community relations
with experience in Project Management or/a proven track record
{or planning and execution of Festivals and Events. Ability to
manage a variety of projects, a budget, a myriad of tasks and
deadlines

Bilingualism would also be considered an asset for this position,
ind Event in

‘Assist with the ongoing development of festival and events in Brockville. Propose
new ideas to improve event planning, themes and assist in the implementation
[process. Provide a support program as determined by the Tourism Manager for
festival and event organizers. The support program could include any/all of the
following examples:
4. Logistical Solutions: Organizational checklists, Media Contacts, How-
To examples, otc.
2. Roferral to festival/event support resources such as rental businesses,
funding opportunities, volunteers, etc.
3. Identify organizations needs and provide possibie solutions and
support.

Development of a new Signature Event or Festival for Brockville /and or the 1000,
Islands Region. Provide a support program as determined by the Tourism
Manager for this festival. The support program could include any/all ofthe
following examples:
1. Logistical Solutions: Organizational checklists, Media Contacts, How-To
‘examples, otc.
2. Referral to festival/event support resources such as rental businesses,
funding opportunities, volunteers, etc.
3. Identify organizations needs and provide possible solutions and support.

‘Assist with the development of marketing and advertising for festivals and
‘events, recruitment and sponsorship plans and aversee execution

Assist festivals and events committees with grant writing, arrangements, ordering
‘and booking when required

Page 73.1 80

‘+ Maintain an excellent database/knowledge base of Brockville and 1000 Islands
{estvals, events and committees and knowledge of general visitor and operator

‘+ Development and coordination with different levels of Government, including
Federal, Provincial and Municipal, Stakeholders and Partners in Brockville and
1000 Islands Region

‘esearch and Product Development

‘+ Conduct research; make site visits during events for determining
Fecommendations/needs for future growth.

‘+ Maintain an excellent knowledge base of Brockville 1000 Islands Region tourism
products to assist in product davelopment and general visitor and operator services.

‘+ Development and coordination with Stakeholders and Partners in Brockville and 1000,
Islands Region with:

‘Sports Tourism

Garden Tourism

Arts/Heritage/Culture Tours

ycle Tourism

Convention Attraction/Support

(On-going tourism development

‘Workshop Development

fakeholder Servi

‘+ Assist in the Organization and implementation of the annual Brockville Tourism
Forum

‘+ Support tourism events such as trade shows, networking forums, sporting events
‘and brochure swap and information sessions

Partnerships/Stakeholder and Media Relations

‘+ Identity, research and evaluate partnering opportunities; develop and negotiate
partnering opportunities and provide leadership and expertise

‘+ Develop and provide media relations services/projects, such as media lines, news
releases, speaking points, speeches and backgrounders; establish and maintain
contacts with media representatives. Provide functional advice and input to high-
profile communications and media relations

Page 74.01 80

‘+ Provide on-site communications planning, organization, coordination and support for
media conferences, speaking engagements and other special events and ceremonies:

‘+ Volunteer based programming

Design & Marketing Communications

‘+ Knowledge and/or the ability to communicate visions for graphic designs for various
publications, promotions and merchandise

‘+ Maintain Festival and Events Photo database/lbrary ~ create and maintain on a
yearly basis

Boards & Committees

‘+ Attend committee meotings identified and deemed important by Tourism Manager,
‘on behalf of Tourism
- Extent to which the employee is involved with each board/committee is to be
docided on a case-by-case basis; taking into consideration the employee's core
duties, current workload and existing commitments.

General Administration and Reporting

‘+ Solf-starter who takes pride in maintaining a smooth running office, is eager to assist
all Tourism and Chamber staff, as well as answering/directing a myriad of inquiries
daily. Proficient in building customer relations to represent Brockville and 1000
Islands Tourism in a highly professional manner.

‘+ Propare and distribute correspondence, media releases/advisores as directed by
Tourism Manager

‘+ Maintain up-to-date databases and information in regards to media, volunteer,
‘committee, board, council and other community stakeholder email ists and
distribution

‘+ Assist with the ongoing development of the strategic direction for Brockville and
District Tourism

‘+ Highly motivated and organized, with exceptional customer service (telephone and
personal) and coordinating skils.

‘+ Initiative orientated and has an understanding of computer technology using MS
Office, Photo Manipulation and Design Software, Proficient using the latest versions
of Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access, and mail merges; email and web
searches.

Page 75 of 80

‘+ Interact and co-operate with all other staff members as a team player
‘+ Staff training when required
‘+ Attend staff, tourism and community meetings as necessary

‘+ Perform other related duties as required

‘MONITORING
‘+ Monitored on a dally basis by the Tourism Manager,
‘+ Assessed daily through interaction with team members and community members

‘+ Assessed monthly through production of committee minutes and reports by
various committee members

EXPECTED RESULTS:

‘+ To provide the participant with the opportunity to develop additional work place
‘experience, skills and contacts

‘+ To provide the Tourism Program with additional resources to better serve the
‘economic interests of the community; visitors and tourism operators

‘+ To develop policies and procedures which will allow the organization to grow due
10 increased efficiencies

‘+ To assist with the ongoing development of festivals and events in Brockville

‘+ To development of a new Signature Event ar Festival for Brockvila Jand or the
1000 Islands Region

Revised January 27, 2014
‘SWEIR — DRAFT

Page 76.1 80

economic development

‘byob Regan ond Susoh M Gord

Business Incubation
A Catalyst for Economic Development

Although Caras has ees the mont Figure 1

resent county othe O8 due a sound ‘Typical Small Business Survival Rate

banking syst ter cal position, |
nd ble hosing markt, many muni

Palites have been devastated bythe ec

ome con Cte init ae wets
suchas Ons Wind, Sa
tS Proms Elgato came
fe Aste yng gen he oie oe
theme Wrath ames ss
TS cece provinl ovem- SOU Sait Cana Sl nd Ma Sed Erp ota Mah 208 |

mente ecoromic sit ha been
Tepfl bar many munispalis ue ok Wkly already have he parersips in what if, wit busines incubation you

ofthe wood yet Thy ae pre pls sw ould ince seve me fbn
Ingots come lives, seni {0 90percxtovera 10sec?
trae mismo fotipn coursed, Understanding the Challenges

{viaing rnc pus andra! 00 New Business What i Business incubation?
lands in pet bring ante lard Sal ies make wp over 48 nshon bss incon o>

tndeds or howard ofjobs. Bua percent workores in Canada _idcsomgrng busines counseling 0 he
nese things ely aay? The etm (over fve ilion people) nin pow enerener The nutri willy 2
‘onivesmentcan be lag, ytthe Ses ing at very State Over 100000 physica ation (hough not aways,

‘ycecanbe vr long And,can wea pew business ae crete every year in veal incubation requires no py
ford to wai? Ths is ott sogasst tat tis eau bowever, the reality that space) The fas ere however, ison

‘we top dong these things ater. hat ot fl within a e-yer period Inthe physi inextator,

we mustlook at iversifeation and ug- ft, 15 percent flint fs ye with

ment our cis to secure a susainuble only $1 percent wriving fe rst 9 sanaetnennnniennnnns
‘ezonomyforour municipalities. What years (se Figre 1) What if you could TN

an we do yt back the gst rol? hange these statics in your municpnl fom nce Cree veonsaloneey
‘Wat can smaller muncipalies ote ky and region? Would you? And, what tw trEomepens onsen CE

‘row and main thie econony’? would you pay ayer todo this? What 8 foot rom When cee
Surly ou probably ave pajobworoyourcommuniy? What meter rook me a

atliat you need rightnow tomake» ig worhtohave somenne come off ancjzun innate sah esos
sipniicantimpac 0 your community. Employment insurance (EI)er social athe edo ew td ob cob
Posies incubation ay be the most augzace? What ify could neeaae Swe Ng

afordabicondeficient way tocreste arya ateofbusines GO oven SUSAMMLEARDER taint
‘inabebusnesres sob within Greve eon? How aon Speen or DANSE Cr rion rnin nt
yer Community abd regin, you even 8 percent? Would you invest some Sit Pre he a Ce

Aine ad ek ov some pers And torres in can be wae cc
ms remount

‘avcust 2019 MUNICIPALWORLD 5

‘The services provided athena
torial pace, accesso acini
tive serves, abo, opi, phone, t=
ters, nd oer pial Busines vices
that ary bane would need = ncading
tres to business exports. The theaght
Tehind incubiton io provi a hese
services ota reduced te ding the fst
‘ar with creases every yer to prepare
thebsines for roution

‘Ar stated Wythe Nationa Business
Incite Association, "The gol of an
neater nt ony ens he smal
bins survives the sarap peed
wre they rena vera, but 9
praduce conden, sucesfl grades
thats well rounded inacialy and
secure thir knawledge of ow foun
2 pradcive busines independent.
‘win br ee years of Start-up.

Buliding a Local Partnership,
forincubation

To larch socal community
incbaton program, iil be important
fer the maniipaliy wo sek out pres.
Spell, reach 0 the acl Com
‘mony Flies Deveopment Compr
than (FDC) Sal Buses Emer
prae Centre (S8EC): hese organizations
re already doing virtual incaton,
‘wher ey reine ont Suc pa
‘eae ition cra o your sucess,
sth havea he human capital and
Frofesonal business counsellors that
eso inporian oth cuttin ro

coms They lho have aces oreounes
forte entrererenrs, om prorars ©
fading (an.

"You ean also ok wo the organi
tion foe partnership, inlding other
municipalities, provinal mies, ke
‘al busine anion and chambers
of eammere epiona innwtion sd
research cones colleps univers,
‘ce More partes brow onboard de
‘onsets higher evel of commanity
hpsgemen and sop ~ an reer
Tieton of acting the conuny
investments nocemaryt achieve susan
sy

‘Chances ae good at you may a
‘en have may these paresis in
pce. Stl the nea sep ae no forthe
Tainebeared,Inebation is lot of work,
uals les the pela reat
‘oon your invest

costs

‘Costs can range ra very let
cexwame is impos o research what
Inesbation ode the common neds —
ind what canal Theres vale in a
‘e-em inevbation model ees as
“ale in 20cm model an Beyond
‘Cons are depend on ung (ence
your pers ead he physical space
valable Mary munities have
‘Supls propery: Local parts may also
fame neta oie er wo othe. I
some instances, may he necessary 0
bl orexpnd to acommodte your

Page 77 of 80

chosen model Again i il dopend on
Sahat you ca fled and ar prepared 0
‘Ongoing operational ots may be

it by combination of program fees
Coed fom cet, nnd solide
tions potential peor desi
rated far provided by he maniipaly
nd oer panes.

Entrance into Incubation

‘Once the physical lcaton progr
ning and a arin ple, the nestor
Iran for elon Potential papas
will ad to i made aware oF fe nce
ation ropa inh a community
swarenes campaign that wil cade
‘verisign buses, and be ma
ing eer.

Tobe considered for entrance no the
program, prospec cts wil eed
{o meet sane ei, uch sot Bing
ina curent ease Tho gol is ceraniy
‘otto be in competition with andlor
rather the neva’ eis ot tise
‘usinetes out of i Bsements an gn
rages scserate hem, 2 the onnet
them th bea econame development
‘ices op then Rin suitable pce
(Most communities have torent snd
factories hey would ke led.)

The elisa ges troup some
screening with snes counsellors ad
‘works on developing basis plan
‘Once the pani developed its veted
tough wppropi estes partes, sch

te MUNICIPAL WORLD

‘Avcust 2013

3 Proje Detvery
‘thera roe Oabery

820 adisions commis, dete:
tine hci conchae (his is
ical understands the comment,
‘nds ible busines plan

Stayingin the incubator

Most residencies ar up to thee
years, but here re ian mol. The
ranae ofthe business may also dicate
‘he engi of acabaton For example
peshups graphic artist nocd nly 2
Teo yr perio: wheres the developer
‘ofa sofvar application or game may
need upto five years. i the nt of te
dy, he goal forthe cen rads
‘nd ol hse vaca storelroni, ak
ing rom fr the next cent oenter te
inesbator

Some ofthe criteria fr helen to
remain in th near ae show up 0
‘we, rovide mony finn ee
rent the erumsello, meet mesons
Ser out by bth te incubtor Saf and
‘het, ao rerain eachable~ thee
snes ew. And they must pay thei
rogram es

Graduation

‘Ones he cient ha full the crm
ofthe pepram agreement andthe
sage wher they o longer ned ine
on servis, thy enn slut
Expansion of th business ca aso lead
Ao gdunion, od thi ged hing
‘You do want be careful it allowing =
company expand several ties inthe
incaato By having good governance,
thatcan be avoided = eer the goa
ofineubaon sotto be lands; you
‘wan clin ogo

Having lear expecations is key.
‘Many inebator ave led they hve
slowed eens expnd seve tines,
{oe pot wher hey Deere the mai
source of evenue the cabtor. This
leads danter when ey do eve,
lenin Boing 3 age han expected
scant pace,

So, meting wilesnes wd ulfiing
genet alows for planned exis em
theincutetor Tore rato ron planed
‘xan this to is good thing = when
‘isa refetion of having god gove™
ance and polices Chen ho fi
ay fees, sow op for work, and meet
‘oesones most be removed fem he
‘rogram The goal ae sto create basi=

nese, 0 itis imponan to know when
{pl be lag itor to ake room
forthe next etrepreneur, Ao, you nev
er wan i hres people = yOu
‘ran them leave te ester beter
{han you found hem and aoe
ti seminaion can save to
che fer the entprencur a thf
isis "ough lve" for bese.

Conclusion

ines incubation progam are
Aesigned oscelerc the succes
‘evelopment of enepreneral compa
ries through an ray of ines spp
‘sources tnd eves fed both in
the intra nuh isnt of
conacs, Wit th el of urged bs
nes asian, enrepeeneus are bet
‘prepared oto busines es ii oe-
asf new ventures that ave a ats
than-average chance of exe

“The paybsck is enormoas On aver
ayo, 95 perce of incubate’ cons
rome, nd 87 pecent of inet
(austen remain in buses? The
‘ling commonity benefis of an scuba
‘orare healthy companies sccked
job prow, sda Signatur on
Investment fr ech economic develop
‘ment olla Spent. The companies that
‘radi ten to tay the region, bring
Inge jobs, econ desi. and
stronger soca rexposiiiy coat
‘ent eerily a win-win station.

‘As pote by Ed Hob, Caiman of|
se Canadian Assocation of Busines
Ineubson, “Busines neato ents
lp commas crest and retin Bs
noes tht pert bs, wealth es,
and exmomic development Ineiaton
‘ene ae not abou "ick nd morta”
or tel esate. They ac abou a process
hat mentors and ides enrepenerih
businesses to succes”

Boning Eee, Sere tun
2h ner ae mene
‘cme oan vane
‘soe Gn Fame Dosopns re

2 ig etc me it

2 amy Mate a emp
‘Row Teo Fest 22

Page 78.1 80,

CULTURAL i]
PLANNING

HOW-TO

Rediscovering the
Wealth of Places:
emunicpalcutural |

planning handbook for

Canadian communities |

Grog Backers book provides |
‘8 pracica troduction 19 core
planning concepts andoos, |
Including 8 methodoiogy for
culture mapping and me |
systematic ientfcation of @
‘wide range oflocal cult! |
fss0ts. A strong focus is

placed on the aflocive integra |
‘on of clue in planning

‘cross municipal epartments,
‘wih ok at some leading
Practices from Canada and
‘roune the wor.

|
|
Fone mn

‘A practical ow to" book on
‘Municpal Cuturai Planning |
‘and the Creative Cty concepts
for muricipaltioe of asians, |
‘Authored by Gord Hume, one
‘tthe teading pioneers ofthe |
reaive Cy movement in
Ganadan municipal govern- |
‘ment, bis book ofers practical
‘ideas and plens on how i
‘Canadian municipalities can
‘sdaptine emerging fourm
|
|
|
|
|

pila of sustanabaty” ito tole
panning, budgeting, decsion
‘aking, and commonly
leadership

$29.95 each
Pus aati wes,
snpong one eae
Cal the tol-ree order |
hotline ot 1-888-368-6125
‘oF vist our online bookshop

"“BookShop |

books.municipatworid.com |

"MUNICIPAL WORLD

sve tuatcne sr ce mst br an Fe age 79080
inn es ehnseehrPst_Page 0
AE - NATIOL POST «NES «CPN = MATS = ESTIG + PSSA ANCE» MORTGAGES ELSE» THD «CUTIE » REPRE» 105» SUSE
FRIED corres -ssnesic sus

ENTREPRENEUR
ir [bt ons nA] aig at ar wae poy

Invest Ottawa offers advice, mentors to help
businesses boom

‘The national capital region's economic development agency, which has a mandate to support smal and mediim-sinedbusineses as
faraway a Kingston hs developed a “triage” approach to assisting entrepreneurs

Business people with an tea, part-time operation, or executives rom «fly functioning enterprise can walk int the vest Ottawa
ccs and meet witha busines specialist who wil then determine their needs and what type ohelp to ote.

‘Business coaching, industry research, accounting assistance, university research contacts, venture capitalists and even entrepreneurs
{in osidence can be atsigned to el.

‘The move totrage incoming besineses was part ofa massive makeover that took place atthe crgaization in February 2012, when
{it changed its same from the Ottawa Centre for Research and Innovation.

‘With the name change came a new mandate: The organization wet from boosting the local technology economy to acting as lobby
‘roup and poet of contac fo allo the repan’sentreprenesrs.

“Those involved with the newly structured agency say the makeover has been welcomed and business is booming. “A majority ofthe
companies we have coming through ae jus people looking to start a service busines opt fod on the abl," said Andrew Moa,
anentrepreneur in residence at Invest Ottawa

ras terest con:S1 02S ave cere tice rete tlp- seas Sood @

sus rt Ona tes aes mart of bras boom] Fnac Pot Page 8001 60
‘Our advice is early stage, just to get them going™

‘He sud more than 4,000 people attended Invest Otawa workshops lst year to lear how to start a new company. The organization
‘ts onthe workshops through ts entrepreneurship centre, dedicated to helping fehing businesses

For people with bigger aspirations, the organization can team the individual with one of 10 entrepreneurs in residence, industry

experts and saccessfil busines owners who work with the economic development agency to gue lglg businesses and help them,
expand. The goa isto drive any type of economic growth within the reghn by supporting ares entrepreneurs,

“Bvery mayor believes John Deere will ome in sn pt 000 jbs in thei ty. That's just not going
Haggis, one of the entrepreneurs working at Invest Ottawa

happen anymore,” id Bob

Mr. Huggins sold his newspaper archival company Paper Of Record to Googe nc in 2008 fr malon of dalars. “The knowedge-
based industry is where there willbe growth.”

Kevin Carol, Invest Ottawa's managing director of kinovation, sid what makes the organization unique among ther economic
evelopment agencies in Ontario ists abil to et entrepreneurs exact the help they need,

(Overseas manufacturing and international competition has forever changed the landscape of Otaws, which was known fr creating
technology titan. The future belongs to sealer more nimble rms, Mr. Carrel sid

“Wd be nice to grow a 1,000-pereon company locally, bt t's more likely we wil ee 30-,50-people companies emerge,” he si.
“You don't need tobe a multinational to take onthe world aay more

Invest Ottawa now has space to incubate 2s many as 40 campanies, though is currently hosting 36, and iis looking to increase that
space tobelp more businesses.

‘The refocus o billing businesses comes as Invest Ottawa rejigsthe way it handles international business development. The
‘organization now has a eam osx industry experts wise jb itis to attract business tothe cy from abroad.

Having the business development managers close by hasbeen a boon fr many startups, Mr. Carrol sid Being able to davon
‘manufctuing contracts abroad take advantage of international research partnerships, or even secure funding from US. oF
European investors becomes mach easier thanks othe contacts the business development managers provide.

Tavest Ottawa i funded jointly by the City af Ottawa and the Ontario and federal governments

Find Eireronsur on Facebook

Most Popalar|

business frist conc01¥ 1023 cna es a8ce ero hep sreste bard n

