Page 1 of 109,

Economic Development and
Planning Committee

Tuesday, March 6, 2018, 4:15 pm

City Hall, Council Chambers

Committee Members Areas of Responsibility
Councillor M. Kalivas, Chair Economic Development
Councillor J. Baker Planning
Councillor L. Bursey Chamber of Commerce
Councillor D. LeSueur DBIA
Mayor D. Henderson, Ex-Officio Heritage Brockville
Page COMMITTEE AGENDA

Disclosure of Interest
Delegations and Presentations

5-8 1. Tourism Office Relocation
(Katherine Hobbs, Manager Brockville Tourism)

9-13 2. Electronic Message Board - Tourism Building
(Katherine Hobbs, Manager Brockville Tourism)

3. Municipal Accommodation Tax
(Pamela Robertson, Chamber of Commerce)

14 Trinity Church (former)
(Mark Arthur Smith)
15 5. Municipal Accommodation Tax
(Hussein Hvalji, Brockville Hotel Association)
Correspondence
16-17 Impost Fees

Andrew Rutherford

THAT the correspondence from A. Rutherford regarding Impost Fees
be received.

18-22

23-25

26 - 36

Page 2 of 109,
Economic Development and Planning Committee
March 6, 2018

Reports from Boards and Committees
Nil.

Staff Reports

2018-021-03
Municipal Accommodation Tax Allocation

THAT the Municipal Accommodation Tax become effective May 1,
2018;

THAT the funds be used to fund the amount of the Tourism Contract
and the balance of the funds be allocated as follows: 54% to
Brockville Tourism for enhanced marketing, 29% to City of
Brockville for tourism-related expenses, 17% to the Tourism
Advisory Committee to be used for grants for tourism-related
initiatives;

THAT any applicable third-party audit fees be funded from the
‘Municipal Accommodation Tax; and

THAT the necessary bylaw be adopted.

2018-020-03
2019 Talll Ships Festival

THAT the Mayor and the Clerk are hereby authorized to execute all
documentation in connection with the 2019 Tall Ships Challenge;

THAT funding of $50,000 from the Municipal Accommodation Tax be
used for the Tall Ships Festival;

THAT any surplus from the Festival be retained by the City.

2018-022-03
Tourism Office Relocation

THAT Report 2018-02-03, Tourism Office Relocation, be received
for information purposes.

Page 3 of 109,

Economic Development and Planning Committee
March 6, 2018

37-384,

39-99

100-109 6.

2018-029-03
Electronic Message Board at the Tourism Office

THAT Council receive Report No. 2018-029-03, Electronic Message
Board at the Tourism Office.

2018-027-03
Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014
137 George Street and Trinity Church Lands (former), Brockville
Owner: 1983874 Ontario Limited

Applicant: Tracy Zander, Zanderplan

THAT Zoning By-law 050-2014 be amended to rezone lands
described as Part of Lots A and B and Part of Lots 23 and 24, Block
44, Plan 67, being Parts 1, 2, 3 and 4 on RP 28R-13889,City of
Brockville, County of Leeds, from R9-1 Multiple Residential Zone, in
part, and MD-2 - Mixed Use Downtown Special Exception Zone, in
part to R8 - Multiple Residential Special Exception Zone to allow for
the development of the subject lands for two (2), three (3) storey
residential apartment buildings containing forty eight (48) units.
The site-specific development standards will include, but are not
limited to, setbacks to parking from a street line, front yard and
exterior side yard setback reductions and that children’s play is not
required; and,

THAT the necessary bylaw be enacted.

2018-026-03
Proposed General Amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014
City of Brockville

THAT the proposed General Amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014
received from the Planning Department, to add Micro-Breweries and
Micro-Wineries to lands zoned MD - Mixed Use Downtown, MW -
Mixed Use Waterfront and MC - Mixed Use Corridor be approved;
and,

THAT the necessary bylaw be enacted.

New Business - Reports from Members of Council

Page 4 of 109,

Economic Development and Planning Committee
March 6, 2018

Consent Agenda
Adjournment

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee adjourned
its meeting until the next regular meeting scheduled for April 3, 2018.

Tourism Office Relocation

Delegation to Economic
Development and Planning
Committee March 6, 2018

Re-Location of Tourism Office

There is a need to re-locate the Tourism Office
due to:
+ City plans for the site
~ Sale & Development
= Loss of opportunity
+ Avoid any interruption of Tourism Services
+ Continue experiencing proximity to key
partners

BA9eF-f0189

Big f0189

Bi9eF- 40189


Big f0189

Baga 018?

Board Request

Background

‘The Gret Waterway RTOO has approved the funding of LED gta board fr

‘The Tram Ofesbeeves tha gta ilboard woud great enhance stor
‘tperancs in Brockley providing arcs to touam rated information thoughout

‘he dy andthe ability to provide tourism formation ter Rous,


‘The Tears Ofce understands hat digital signs re contrary oy bylaw inthe
‘downtown arn However es the Tour Ofestslcaed no Cy bung, we bene
‘hata precedent wilt be st for ther egal signs the Miso De.
‘tonly we request an exemption onthe fling basis

+The Cy win effec wm the sgn. The Tous offic wil flow Cy of rekle

+ The sign want provide cial tursmlated information, Cy of Brockie
notfestons/ menage, or Province of Onan nformation of specie by he
cy

+ The sign wl graty enhance vitor experiance in or Gy and Region, and help ur
‘tection ad butnene tthe pony

“+ Messages an ince videos nd information fom the Tora website that highlight
Sd promote thence estas ofthe Cy and Waterway

Spey the sign canbe sede:

+ Promote atractions ad event in Brochile nd the Region
+ Provieintormation about tactons, such shel Tunnel, the
rode gnc for ean of key wacons

Provide ming and schedules for Ghost Walls, boat rset.

* Provide yo rocvale public sence announcement suchas weather

Pegenddofo48?

Sign Placement

+ Proximity to elect - Aula inthe electrical pane ofthe tour

+ Visit or Market patronson Market Street West

+ Visit orpedesians on King stret as they come towards the waterront

+ Visit for vistors thatnave traveled the Tourism fe but nd it lose

Sign Programing estes

board and not an tie party.

previous, the turism ofc wil be inal conto ofthe sig, and wit
hues rp intent saves a tated determined by the Cy such but Nt

* sthigh wate and evening lengthen message ines to reduce posit of

Pegedd-ofot8?

Pagedafot8?

LUD signs aretow energy using 7% ower energy consumption to edice operating

Max watts $20 / Average wats 306 each ie
otnge:120V coche

We an instantly send multiple mestges tothe sign to promote
Sry attaion and information that could be Repl toute

‘The sign holst value andi ast unit and elcate


+ gal averting i far les expensive than tadona advertising.

+ Unt other advertising med itcan be on the job 24 hours dy, 365

‘athe belt ofthe Tour Octet he digital sgn wil

‘The Tera ofc pledges that local consideration are

Pagenda foe?

Page 14 of 109
March 1, 2018

BROCKVILLE CITY OF THE 1000 ISLANDS
‘Atteaton: Sanda MacDonald, AMCT,CMO.

Cay Clerk

Ms, MacDonald:

Please find attached, as Tunderstand the proper terminology

Delegation fof EDP

1 submit the following reasons to oppose the application for rezoning ofthe Gorge St. former Trinity Church property.
Citizens objections declaring excessive tafe concer

Redelaation as Heritage building curently in application

‘Obvious lack of concer by curent owner neglecting safety warnings to neighboring citizens
‘And the leser known fc is that The Trinity Church on George Stet in Brockils haunte,

236 professional paranormal investigators corroborate

‘Sobmited this ay

‘Mark Arthar Smith

Page 15 of 109

Sandra MacDonald

Frome Leste White |
Sent March-o1-18 309 PM .
Te: twalgmalcom .
ce Sandra MacDonald

Subject Dra comments .
Witussein

‘Thanks fr coming today. Here Is the draft comment for your editing:

‘The Brochile Hotel Association has met and recommend that 100% of the funds collected be given toa new Not for
Profit to enhance Tourism in Brockvil

‘The Not For Profit Board would be comprised of
4 representative from each hotel (4)

1 representative from the Cty of Brockuille OR Tourism Brockville
1 representative from the Bed and Breakfast association

‘And possibly others in the tourism industry.

The NFP would hice a team ora firm to encourage tourism in Brockville through increased marketing, festival, et. which
Would increase the number of overnight stays.

Let me know what you think and I wil incorporate that into the report.

ve copied Sandi to let her know that someone from the Hotel Associaton will be at the Economic Development and
Planning meeting next Tuesday, March 6” ~ stat time approximately 4:00 p.m.

‘Thankyou,

Lesley White, EoD.
Manager of Strategic Initiatives,
Cty of Brockvile

1 King Steet West

Brockville, Ontario

Kev 705,

7:613-342-8772 x4039
Iwhite@brocile;com

wou

ityeuwaet ogo fest, go oloe if you want fr go together


Page 16 of 109

For City Council's consideration Janay 26, 2018

IMPOST FEES

am a Real Estate Broker here in town and I represent a client who has a property forsale inthe
Millwood catchment area. This property is zoned R5-+ allowing potentially a building of 185
‘metres or approximately 60 feet high and therefore potentially 60 units. Peshaps a more reasonable
build of 30 units is acceptable for this location.

‘We recently had a contract in place which subsequently has now been texminated partly to do with a
bette understanding by the Buyer ofthe required impost fees stibuted to the build on the subject
property. These fees are in addition to the development fes in place. Theis intentions were
approximately 30 units which withthe impost fees of $2151.59 per unit amounted to $64,547.70 t0
their costs in this development

Positively in the last couple of weeks I have discussed this excellent project with wo more potential
developers. One is pursuing the 50-60 unit build, again in impost fees, this is approximately
$5107,500-$130,000 expense to the build with ths revenue going tothe city for their expense of
creating the Millwood Avenue extension back in 1987. A itde history i necessary to put in
perspective what is realy going on here. Prior to 1987 there was an impost fe of $85 per dwelling
to be assessed against all new residential development which contributes tothe traffic on Millwood.
Avenue. This fee was changed to $505 per dwelling in 1987 to offset the city’s expense of the
Millwood Avenue extension which was completed and actually cost $635,747.90. The arrangement
agreed to in 1987 was 2 50% share to be borne between the city and the benefiting owners. Based
fn the 50-50 arrangement, half of $635,747.90 is $317,873.95. T don't have an actual amount that
the city has collected since 2009 but itis esimated to be actually over $380,000 which is presumably
significantly more than the outstanding amouat needed from the arrangement made then ie:
$517,873.95 (% of actual total expense incurred by the city) minus $295,074.10 (acral revenues
collected by the city up to 2009) equals only $22,799.85 remaining outstanding.

Jn 2009 there was a decision made by Council fora Residential Stimulus Package to be put in place
for residential development and an elimination of development fees but a coatiavatioa of the
impost fee program. A concept of faimess, considering all ofthe units for which impost fees have
bbeen paid to date, the extended passage of time since the eapital project was completed, that these
semaining residenGal builds shall be obliged to pay thei share. [fone recalls that these foes were in
the $500-$700 range in the fist years of the arrangement to collet them, nota the $2000 range,
then in fairness considering the capital project has been completed, any further collection especially
of this type of intensification and higher density builds of apartment needed units, we are only
‘causing non development of these remaining properties. Its proven that these excess fees over and
above che development fees, made high density projects not feasible for the developer. ‘There has
not been a successful high density project inthe last 25 years. As we also know development fees

have been back in place fora few years
RECEIVED
JAN 26 2018
CLERK

Page 17 of 109

‘The wisdom years ago regarding that there would be increased trafic on Millwood Avenue from the
property owners of the area as to now importantly be understood that Millvood Avenue traffc is
probably 90% of non Millwood Avenue homeowners. It isa primary artery for vehicles including
emengency vehicles, both fire and police and for everyone to get tothe Memorial Cente.

A few final points for consideration:

1) Why a 4% increase escalation clause on impost fees was agreed to considering what would
‘be more logical, the actual rate of inflation;

2) Other areas of residential development for esample, Centre Street and Bridlewood area do
‘not have impost fees.

And most importantly, we all understand the ta implications of having new assessments added for
‘our ciny’s revenues. If these higher density projects can be supported and have new occupied
‘specially by seniors” buildings, the direct tax revenue is at least $150,000 per year.

| think a a city with some challenges in the future that a proactive building industry is extremely
‘obvious and a relasation ofthese fees tothe builders an incentive forthe industry. Now is the time
fora good consultation process.

EL

Andrew Rutherford Broker
‘Sutton Essential Real Estate Brokerage
71 King Street West

Brockville Ontario

Kev 3P8

Page 18 of 109

February 12, 2018

Report to Economic Development and Planning Committee
March 6, 2018

2018-021-03 :
Municipal Accommodation Tax Allocation Casselman

Manager of Strategic Initiatives

RECOMMENDATION:

THAT the Municipal Accommodation Tax become effective May 1, 2018;

‘THAT the funds be used to fund the amount of the Tourism Contract and the
balance of the funds be allocated as follows: 54% to Brockville Tourism for
enhanced marketing, 29% to City of Brockville for tourism-related expenses, 17%
to the Tourism Advisory Committee to be used for grants for tourism-related
inttiatives;

THAT any applicable third-party audit fees be funded from the Municipal
‘Accommodation Tax.
PURPOSE

To have Council consider the approval of the Implementation plan for a Municipal

‘Accommodation Tax.

To notify Council that consultation with all local accommodation providers has taken |
place and there are no current concerns with the administration of the tax.

To notify Council that accommodation providers and the members of the Tourism
Advisory Board were surveyed to determine how additional revenues were to be
allocated.

BACKGROUND

On January 30, 2018, Council passed the following motion:

‘THAT a hotel tax at a proposed rate of 4 percent on all Brockville transient
accommodations effective May 1, 2018 be approved;

THAT a total amount of hotel tax be used for Tourism related activities;
and

Page 19 of 109

Report 2018-021-03,
Municipal Accommodation Tax Allocation

THAT an implementation plan be developed prior to initiating the hotel tax;
and

THAT the necessary bylaw be enacted;

THAT the Township of Elizabethtown-kitley be encouraged to Implement a similar
transient accommodation tax.

Elizabethtown-Kitiey Council has been notified of Council's request to encourage a
similar tax in their municipality and this topic will be introduced at their Council,
meeting on March 12".

ANALYSIS:

Staff has met with the following transient accommodation providers to discuss the
implementation and remittance of the tax:

Comfort Inn on behalf of the Brockville Hotel Association which includes Holiday
Inn, Travelodge and Days Inn
Brockberry Grill & Suites

Daniel Suites

Noble Suites

Tall Ships Landing

1000 Islands Bed and Breakfast
Sir Isaac Brock Bed and Breakfast
Rob Thompson Hotel

Pine Street Bed and Breakfast
O'Sheridan's Bed and Breakfast

Following consultations with accommodation providers the following
Implementation Plan is recommended:

Implementation Plan:
1. Remittance will be done monthly except in the case of businesses who earn
less than $65,000/year who will remit quarterly.

2. The tax will be charged on the bed portion only and it will be up to the
accommodation provider to determine the amount to be taxed. All revenues
are subject to audit by a third-party to be paid by the City. The regulation
allows for the municipality to apply the costs related to collecting and
‘administering the tax against the revenues.

3. The tax applies to any properties providing transient accommodation rental
under 30 days or less and individual accommodator using a common


Page 20 of 109

Report 2018-021-03
Municipal Accommodation Tax Allocation

Platform marketplace service such as Alrbnb, Staff's currently in the process
Of negotiating an agreement with Airbnb.

Staff also surveyed accommodation providers and the members of the Tourism
Advisory Board, to collect their view on how the additional funds should be utlized.

Respondents were asked to indicate a percentage allocation across three possible
areas: enhanced marketing of Brockville; investment in product development of
city-owned assets, grants for festivals/events and new attractions.

A total of 13 surveys were completed.

‘The survey responses suggested the following breakdown:

[Proposed tourism related expenses %
[Enhance marketing of Brockville by expanding reach of current
1___| marketing program managed by Tourism Brockville 54%

investment in product developmentof city-owned assets: for
lexample downtown accessible washrooms, diver’ change room,
2__ [atenadevelopment, ete. 20%

Grants to individuals/organizations for festivals, events, new
3_[attractions, ete 17%
Totall__ 100%

Other suggestions included settin
Used for tourism-related activities in the future, assisting with the capital project for
upgrading the force main or hiring a Director of Tourism,

early contributions into a Reserve Fund to be

response:

|
|
‘The Brockville Hotel Association did not complete the survey but submitted this
The Brockville Hotel Association has met and recommend that 100% of the
funds collected be given to a new Not for Profit to enhance Tourism In

Brockville. |

The Not For Profit Board would be comprised of:

1 representative from each hotel (4)
11 representative from the City of Brockville OR Tourism Brockville
41 representative from the Bed and Breakfast association

And possibly others in the tourism industry.


Page 21 of 109

Report 2018-021-03
Municipal Accommodation Tax Allocation

The NFP would hire a team ora firm to encourage tourism in Brockville through
increased marketing, festival, etc. which would increase revenue for local
attractions, restaurants, shops and accommodations.

With this feedback, staff is recommending the following allocation of the additional
fund:
+ 54% for enhanced marketing of Brockville through the Tourism Offices

budget

+ 29% for investment in product development of city-owned tourism related
assets

+ 17% for grants to individuals/organizations for festivals, events or new
attractions

POLICY IMPLICATIONS

There are no policy implications at this time.

FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS

The legislation states that 50% of the funds raised must be given to an “eligible
tourism entity”. An eligible tourism entity is defined as a non-profit entity whose
mandate includes the promotion of tourism in Ontario or in a municipality.

‘The proceeds from the tax will fund the value of the tourism contract of $188,000
plus a yearly adjustment for CPI.

‘The remaining funds will be distributed according to the percentages outlined
above.

CONCLUSIONS

‘The arrival of the Municipal Accommodation Tax has been generally very well
received by the accommodation providers and tourism stakeholders as many have
felt that Brockville has been at a competitive disadvantage in marketing as there
has been insufficient funding. This is reflected in the high ranking of marketing
through the allocation survey.

Staff will report on the total funds raised each year and how the funds were
distributed. Financial information with respect to the remittances from each
‘accommodation provider will be kept confidential.


Report 2018-021-03
Municipal Accommodation Tax Allocation

Page 22 of 109

L. White Va D. Dick, CPA, CA
Manager Strategic Initiatives Director of Corporate Services
B. Caéseiman

City Manager

Page 23 of 109

February 12, 2018

Report to Economic Development and Planning Committee
March 6, 2018

2018-020-03
2018 Tall Ships Festi

B. Casselman
City Manager

White
Manager of Strategic Initiatives

RECOMMENDATION:

‘THAT the Mayor and the Clerk are hereby authorized to execute all documentation
Jn connection with the 2019 Tall Ships Challenge;

‘THAT funding of $50,000 from the Municipal Accommodation Tax be used for the
Tall Ships Festival;

‘THAT any surplus from the Festival be retained by the City.
PURPOSE

To request Council authorization to enter into an agreement with Tall Ships America
for the 2019 Tall Ships Festival.

To request temporary funding for the festival In order to pay the port fees and
deposits for the ships. This funding will be returned to the City upon receipt of the
related Municipal Accommodation Tax.

BACKGROUND

‘The City of Brockville will be the smlast of eleven ports for the Tall Ships Challenge
~ Great Lakes 2019. The event festival will commence Friday, August 30” and end
Monday, September 2, 2019 (Attachment 1). Brockville's Tali Ship Committee,
consisting of thirteen people, will begin to meet on a regular basis to plan for the
event,

The 2013 and 2016 Tall Ships Festivals were both successful in drawing over
40,000 people to each event. Although there was deficit from the 2016 festival, the
economic spinoff to the local businesses from it and the 2013 festival was
favourable. The 2013 festival produced a surplus of $74,000.

ANALYSIS
The Tall Ships Challenges occur every three years in the Great Lakes. In 2019, the
Challenge starts in Toronto on June 28 followed by ten ports ending in Brockville on
Labour Day weekend.

Page 24 of 109

Report 2018-020-03,
2019 Tall Ships Festival

Brockville's Tall Ships Committee is a dedicated group of individuals who are all
returning for their third festival. The Committee will be chaired by Brian Burns.
Dave Paul will return to provide his knowledge to the event. Dayna Golledge,
Kendra Lorimer and Lesley White will represent the City on the Committee.

POLICY IMPLICATIONS

‘There are no policy implications at this time.

FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS

Staff has developed a budget for this event that reflects a small surplus.
Sponsorship and grants will be pursued and there will be an admission fee for
visitors to the festival.

‘The 2019 Tall Ships Challenge Great Lakes Series has already been successful in
receiving the Celebrate Ontario Blockbuster program grant through the Ministry of
Tourism, Culture and Sport. The grant of $400,000 for all ports will assist with
marketing and ship fees.

‘The new Municipal Accommodation Tax is intended for “tourism-related activities

CONCLUSIONS

Past Tall Ships Festival have been significant events for Brockville contributing
many millions in economic benefit for local business.

Ages riba Jo

L. White LZ D. Dick, CPA, CA
Manager Strategic Initiatives Director of Corporate Services

B. até

City Manager

TALL SHIPS CHALLENGE”
Great Lakes 2019


Page 26 of 109

February 12, 2018

Report to Economic Development and Planning Committee
March 6, 2018

2018-022-03
Tourism Office Relocation B. Casselman
City Manager
L. White
Manager of Strategic Initiatives

RECOMMENDATION:

‘That Report 2018-022-03 be received for information purposes.
PURPOSE

To provide the Committee Members with the options for the relocation of the
Tourism office.

BACKGROUND

‘The City has contracted the Chamber of Commerce to provide Tourism Services to
December 31, 2020. The contract includes a provision for housing:

b) In the event that the existing City owned property currently housing Tourism
office and store is sold a comparable facility wil be provided or negotiated. The
ity agrees to cover all costs associated Including taxes, lease, heat and hydro,
etc. All efforts will be made to find a sultable and reasonable location.

©) Office space for additional tourism staff required for the delivery of any
‘additional City-approved marketing plan.

In February 2017, the Tourism Advisory Committee presented to the Waterfront
‘Committee suggestions for "improving Brockville’s waterfront” which Included
recommendations for a new Tourism Office and year round public washrooms.

The important elements to be considered as part ofthe renovation or relocation
‘+ Public Washroom
+ Accessibilty for wheelchairs and strollers
+ Retail area (at least 440 sq.ft.) and storage space (1000 sq, ft.) for
merchandise and brochures
+ Welcoming Exterior and signage
+ Downtown or waterfront location
+ Office Space ~ three offices, meeting space, kitchenette, staff washroom.


Page 27 of 109

Report 2018-022-03
Relocation of the Tourism Office

In order to address the Immediate concer of accessible year-round washrooms,
staff were directed to keep the washrooms located on Blockhouse Island open year :
round however this is not ideal as visitors to the Tourism Office expect public

washrooms onsite. The Tourism Advisory Committee strongly suggests that the .
office should be located in the downtown area in an area easily located with

parking.

Options considered for the Tourism Office in Report 2017-116-11(Attachment 1)
were:

1. Renovate the space currently occupied by the Chamber of Commerce and the
DBIA and allow for accessible access. Staff estimates this to be approximately
$25,000 for the installation of an accessible ramp at the Market Street West
entrance, some renovations including removal of non-load bearing walls,
installation of a staff washroom and signage.

2. Construction of a new bullding In the downtown core, possibly an addition to |
Victoria Building on the sidewalk area on the southwest corner. Staff estimates this
could cost approximately $50,000.

3. Request space in elther the commercial area of Phase II of the Wedgewood
or the development at Blockhouse Square. The timeframe for construction and
monthly costs are unknown at this time.

4, Renovate the current Tourism Office. This is not a feasible option as the cost
would be oppressive and the intention is to remove all of the city-owned assets on
Water and Market to allow for a new development at some time in the future.

5, The City could purchase the Wayfare Sales Office and relocate It in the
vicinity of City Hall. The Sales Office is 48° x 24" and is currently listed for sale.

6. __ Leasing @ portion of The Rowing Club. This option had been previously
considered and discussed with the Rowing Club. Currently, the Club Is leasing |
space to a Fitness Centre so It is unclear if there would still be space available for |
Tourism.

‘The Waterfront Adhoc Committee members determined that City Hall is the ideal
location for Tourism Services and visitor washrooms and asked for a staff report
detalling the feasibility of locating both on the ground floor of City Hall.

Staff report 2017-116-11 detailing the estimated cost to relocate the Tourism Office
Into the ground floor of City Hall, displacing the offices for the Chamber of
Commerce and DBIA was received by Council on December 12, 2017. Council
approved the following motion: “That Council refers discussion on the relocation of

Page 28 of 109

Report 2018-022-03
Relocation of the Tourism Office

the tourism office and contracted services, including potential proposals from the
‘Aquatarium and other, to the Economic Development and Planning Committee for a
thorough review and recommendation to Council by March 31, 2018".

‘The Aquatarium Board was Invited to submit a proposal.

‘The Aquatarium Board declined, stating “In reference to the City’s request for a
proposal to manage Tourism Services, The Aquatarium feels it is in everyone's best
Interest that any such proposal should have the support of the Chamber of.
Commerce”.

‘As a result of safety concerns from the staff who work in the Tourism Office, a
structural review was completed by Eastern Engineering Group in September 2017
(Attachment 2). The recommendation from the Engineer is that “facility should be
closed and removed or replaced” as the required renovations would not be
‘economically feasible.

‘The following improvements were made:

‘+ Electrical concerns including the installation of required safety lights, exit
signs and smoke detectors.

‘+ Plumbing, removal and replacement of the sewage line in the basement.

+ Installation of new emergency exit door from Tourism retail sales area on the
west side of the building.

‘+ Installation of emergency exit stairs / deck on the west side to service both
the tourism offices and retail area (# 10) and tourism storage area (# 8)
next door.

‘+ Relocate fire extinguishers as directed.

+ Limit access in the storage butlding (old apartment) to the main floor only
and provide for emergency exit.

‘+ Limit access to the atti, third floor in the tourism building.

Tourism Staff were pleased by the quick action taken by the City to Improve the life
safety deficiencies.

Heritage Brockville has confirmed that this building is not designated under the
Ontario Heritage Act.

ANALYSIS

In addition to the options mentioned above, there are other possibilities that may
be explored:


Page 29 of 109

Report 2018-022-03
Relocation of the Tourism Office

7. Blockhouse Square development
To date, the City’s attempts to develop the area at Market Street West and Water
Street known as Blockhouse Square has been unsuccessful, having said that, the
redevelopment of these lands remains a priority. There is a preliminary meeting
with 2 new Developer on March 5, 2018. The intention is a mixed use building with
residential, commercial and a parking garage with space for the Tourism Office and
public washrooms.

If this development proceeds, the current buildings located at Water and Market
Streets would eventually be demolished to allow for more parking.

8. Lease space at 7 King Street West
Recently, the leased space located In the lower level of the Scotiabank Bullding on
Market Street West has become vacant. The space is approximately 1,200 square
feet and costs $12.95 /sq. ft. base rent and $8.00/sq. ft. for taxes, utilities, etc.
totaling approximately $25,140 per year. Renovations would be required to allow
for offices and an accessible public washroom that would be available to the public
during office hours only. Staff have met with a local Contractor who suggests the
renovation could cost $50,000. The Landlord is will to negotiate paying for the cost
of the Improvements with’a good lease.

There is no parking included with this unit. Staff proposes that two spots in the
Market Street parking lot be designated 15 minute parking for visitors to the
Tourism Office. Currently staff at the Tourism Office is provided free parking in
Market Street parking lot (1 spot) and Water Street parking lot (2 spots).

Currently the Tourism Office uses 1,135 sq. ft. for retail and offices so it is possible
that there would be enough space in the leased area.

‘Tourism Staff and Management have toured the facility and agree that that space,
once improved, would be suitable.

9. Explore other existing storefronts in the downtown core.
‘There is currently vacant space and other space that is being developed on King
Street that may be sultable for the Tourism Office. Staff could be directed to
explore this through a Request for Proposals.


Page 30 of 109

Report 2018-022-03,
Relocation of the Tourism Office

POLICY IMPLICATIONS

‘There are no policy implications at this time,

FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS
To date, the City has spent $13,305 on life-safety improvements, $750 on the
Building Audit and $18,023 on the Architect.

CONCLUSIONS

{A Visitor Centre Is often the first Impression a tourist has of an area. Its

Important to address these concerns by relocating the office to a better location
‘temporarily until Blockhouse Square is developed.

ede Fuble 7 C

i white D. Dick, CPA, CA
Manager Strategic Initiatives Director of Corporate Services

City Manager


Page 31 of 109
Attachment 1

November 10, 2017

Report to Finance, Administration & Operations Committee
November 21, 2017

2017-16-11
Installation of public washrooms downtown and B. Casselman
Relocation of the Tourism Office City Manager
L. White
Manager of Strategic Initi
RECOMMENDATION:

‘THAT the Finance and Administration Committee receive this report for information
Purposes.

PURPOSE
‘To advise the Finance and Administration Committee on the proposed relocation of

the Tourism Office from 10 Market Street and the creation of public washrooms at
City Hall for consideration at the 2018 budget deliberations.

BACKGROUND .

‘At the March 28, 2017 meeting of the Waterfront Ad hoc Committee, Wendy Van
Keulen, Tourism Manager made a presentation naming the needs required for the
tourism office. Staff were asked to bring a report back to the Waterfront.
‘Committee detailing the needs of the Tourism Office and recommendations,

Ms. Van Keulen details the requirements as being:

Public Washrooms
Accessible

Retail Space (currently 440 sq. ft.)

‘Storage Space for merchandise and brochures (1000 sq.ft.)

‘Welcoming exterlor presence and signage

Downtown or waterfront location

Office space - three working areas, one located within the general retail
space

‘+ Access to kitchen, boardroom and staff washrooms.


Page 32 of 109

Report 2017-16-11
Installation of public washrooms downtown and relocation of the Tourism Office

‘Ba Architect was engaged to review the layout of the ground floor and have
confirmed that with some alterations, the plan to relocate the Tourism into this area
's feasible without disrupting the Thousand Islands Community Development
Corporation or the Small Business Enterprise Centre (Attachment 1). Removal of
some walls to accommodate for better movement and storage space would be
necessary. The proposed layout was reviewed with the Waterfront Committee in
October. The Committee directed staff to review the possibility of including the
Chamber of Commerce and DBIA in the new layout. After discussion with the
Architect, it was determined that there is Insufficient square footage to
accommodate all groups.

‘The Installation of four washrooms that would be accessible to the public from the
‘exterior of the building was incorporated into the design. These washrooms would
bbe accessible after regular business hours and on the weekends. Timed locks would
allow for the door to be locked at certain hours much the same as the washrooms
at Centeen Park.

POLICY IMPLICATIONS

‘There are no policy Implications at this time.

FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS.

Currently, the DBIA and Chamber pay a total of $10,000 in rent yearly to the City
Cf Brockville which would no longer be collected if they were to be relocated.

The cost of the Tourism Office at 10 Market Street is approximately $6,600 year.
The cost includes electricity, gas, taxes and general maintenance. Assuming that
the building would be demolished when Tourism vacates, this cost would be
eliminated,

‘The estimated cost of the renovation is $383,000 (Attachment 2). Staff have
Investigated grants are hopeful that there may be funding of up to $100,000.

If the Tourism Office was to be relocated, the city-owned properties on Water and
Market Street East would be demolished to allow for more parking and/or future
development. Staff does not have an estimate of the cost of the demolition at this
time.


_ oe eet 108
ae
Ha

!

iH
ii,t
ail
Pie
Nai ath
ai su
=
‘ uJ
Baar

i
ia
Oi
| HE


Page 34 of 109

IDe

oranas

exoxssefor


Attachment 2°92 25 of 109

ASTERN oecDaiig
NGINEERING GROUP mc. Mose Oto KV
(CONSULTING ENGINEERS rye on ac 9) 26408

Wes She wom Partnecon|

File: 7815 September 28, 2017

City of Brockville
1 King Street West
Brockville, ON K6V 7AS

Attention: Conal Cosgrove

Dear Sie: Re: Structural Review of
Brockville Tourism Office

BACKGROUND:
aster Engineering Group Ino. performed a preliminary visual review ofthe Brockville
“outs Office located at 10 Market St. West, Brockville, ON, the review was conducted in
September 2017. The turism office is a converted residential building, The building is storey
and half wood framed construction on rubble stone foundations with basic overall dimensions of
48°x30". We approximate that the original construction is approximately 90-100 years old. The
purpose of our review was to perform a visual review ofthe exposed construction and provide
recommendations based on the constuction methodology, review the building components

condition and note deterioration of material, as well as to assess the building based on good
engineering practi

METHODOLOGY:
‘Our review was based on visual inspection only. Finishes were not moved to review any
construction, The building was in use a the time of our review. No excavations were conducted
to assess subgrade conditions, similarly no material testing or mathematically analysis were
conducted to complete our review.


Page 36 of 109

RECOMMENDATIONS:

Itis our recommendation that the facility shouldbe closed and removed or replaced. The
building could be repaired, however, its our opinion thatthe required renovations would not be
economically fesible. As a capital investment, itis unlikely thatthe city would redeem the cost
required to upgrade the building,

‘SHORT TERM:
‘Should the intention be to maintain the facility and perform upgrades to remediate deficient
‘components, we recommend a full structural engineering assessment ofthe building. The intent
‘would be to measure the existing structure and perform an analysis based on the theoretical
induced loads as forthe building as prescribed in the 2012 Ontario Building Code for the
intended use ofthe building. Repair and/or reinforcement details would need to be provided for
any deficient construction.
‘We also recommend a building code review of the building to ensure that all life safety criteria

and barrier five accessibility is achieved within the pubic facility to the criteria of Part 11 of the
2012 Ontario Building Code.

LONG TERM:

‘Vacate and strategically demolish the building. The building is near the end of its useful life,
Another building of similar size could be rebuilt within the existing foundation footprint or the
vacant land may be re-purposed should the facility be relocated.

Please do not hesitate to contact the undersigned should you have any questions or concerns.

Yours very truly,
EASTERN ENGINEERING GROUP INC. |

oe ee

B.D. Campbell, P.Eng.


Page 37 of 109

February 12, 2018

Report to Economic Development and Planning Committee
March 6, 2018

2018-029-03 B. Casselman
Electronic Message Board at the Tourism Office City Manager
L. White

Manager of Strategic Initiatives
RECOMMENDATION:

‘THAT Council receive this report regarding the proposed installation of an Electronic
Message Board at the Tourism Office, 10 Market Street West.

PURPOSE

To obtain Counci’s view on the installation of an Electronic Message Board at the
Tourism Office.

BACKGROUND

Staff at the Tourism Office has requested authorization to install a 3 ft. x 8 ft.
Electronic Message Board (EMB) on the north wall of the Tourism Office located at
10 Market Street West.

‘Tourism Staff feel that the sign would enhance visitor experiences in Brockville by
providing access to tourism related information throughout the day, and the ability
to provide tourism information after hours.

Although EMB's are prohibited In the downtown core by City of Brockville Sign By-
law 84-89, this sign would be exempt from the by-law as it is proposed to be
located on a City building. The Tourism Office Is requesting that the sign be
considered as the by-law does not apply to City buildings; however, when possible,
the City strives to abide by its own by-law.

‘The Planning Department is not in favour of the proposed EMB within the downtown
core and notes that should Council permit this request (although being located on a
City building) a precedent will be set for others to request the same and may have
legal implications should Council deny a request. There are other suitable forms of
advertising that comply with the “Heritage Theme” of the By-law that may be
utilized without the need for an EMB,

Page 38 of 109

Report 2018-029-03
Electronic Message Board at the Tourism Office

POLICY IMPLICATIONS

‘There are no policy implications at this time.

FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS

Funding for the purchase and installation of the sign would be from a grant from
the Great Waterway.

CONCLUSIONS.
‘This report is being provided as background information relating to a request from
the Tourism Office for the installation of an Electronic Message Board on the north
face of 10 Market Street West.

‘A decision on this matter is at the pleasure of the Committee (EPD) and Council.

C LF
Mele pLUwe in
‘L White” D. Dick, CPA, CA
Manager Strategic Initiatives Director of Corporate Services
B, Casselman

City Manager

Page 39 of 109

22Fob18
REPORT TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE ~ 06MARCH2018
2018-027-03,

PROPOSED ZONING BY-LAW AMENDMENT D. Dick
TO ZONING BY-LAW 050-2014 DIRECTOR OF PLANNING (Acting)
137 GEORGE STREET AND TRINITY ANDREW MCGINNIS
CHURCH LANDS (FORMER), BROCKVILLE PLANNER I

OWNER: 1983874 ONTARIO LIMITED
APPLICANT: TRACY ZANDER, ZANDERPLAN
FILE NO.: D14-027;0e02014)

RECOMMENDATIONS:

4. THAT Zoning By-law 050-2014 be amended to rezone lands described as Part of
Lots A and B and Part of Lots 23 and 24, Block 44, Plan 67, being Parts 1, 2, 3 and
4 on RP 28R-13889, City of Brockville, County of Leeds, from R9-1 Multiple
Residential Zone, in part, and MD-2 — Mixed Use Downtown Special Exception
Zone, in part to R8 ~ Muitiple Residential Special Exception Zone to allow for the
development of the subject lands for two (2), three (3) storey residential apartment
buildings containing forty eight (48) units. The site-specific development standards
will include, but are not limited to, setbacks to parking from a street line, front yard
and exterior side yard setback reductions and that children’s play is not required;
and,

2. THAT the necessary bylaw be enacted.

PURPOSE:

‘The purpose of this report is to provide recommendation for amendments to City of
Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 respecting lands to be developed for two (2), three (3)
storey rental apartment buildings containing a total of forty-eight (48) units and associated
parking

BACKGROUND:

Ms. Tracy Zander, ZanderPian, acting on behalf of 1983874 Ontario Limited, owners of
lands described as Part of Lots A and B and Part of Lots 23 and 24, Block 44, Plan 67,
being Parts 1, 2, 3 and 4 on RP 28R-13889, City of Brockville, County of Leeds, 137
George Street and the former Trinity Church, has submitted applications for amendment to
Zoning By-law 050-2014 with respect to the subject lands.

Page 40 of 109

2018-027-03 Page 2
Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment
157 George Street and Trinity Church (former)

‘Owner: 1983874 Ontario Limited
‘Agent: Tracy Zander, ZanderPlan
File D14-027 wn)

Description of Proposal

‘The lands at 137 George St. have frontage on Gilmour, George and Clarissa Streets and
‘are currently occupied by the former Trinity Anglican Church, annex and associated parking
lot. These lands are designated “Downtown and Central Waterfront Area” within the "Mixed
Use Node" and are subject to Skyline Development Area Policies and Transitional Area
Policies in the Official Plan. The properties are zoned in Zoning By-law 050-2014 as MD-2
= Mixed Use Downtown Special Exception Zone, in part, and R9-1 Multiple Residential
‘Special Exception Zone, in part. The Application filed on behalf of 1983874 Ontario Limited
‘seeks to demolish the former Trinity Church and Annex building and develop two (2), three
(3) storey rental apartment buildings containing a total of forty-eight (48) units and
associated parking

Parking for fifty-three (53) vehicles will be primarily outdoors, eighteen (18) of which are
proposed to be located underground within Building “A’ (Clarissa St. @ George St),
‘Access is to be from George Street via a six metre (6.0m) wide driveway with internal lanes
leading to the underground parking spaces.

‘The development, as proposed, is requesting site-specific development standards
respecting reductions to building setbacks, a reduction to the minimum distance parking
can be from a street line and relief from the requirement to provide an equipped children's
play area

Currently there are two (2) separate properties which are individually zoned with two (2)
different zoning classifications. 137 George Street is zoned R9-1 — Multiple Residential
Special Exception Zone which permits an eleven (11) storey condominium building with a
total of ninety-four (94) units. The R9-1 Special Exception regulations are specific to
‘setbacks from street lines and reduction to parking with height, the number of storeys and
the number of residential units all being subject to bonus provisions. In addition, the zoning
had in place a clause for offsite improvements to Rotary Park at a value of not less than
'$30,000.00,

‘The former Trinity Church lands are zoned MD-2 Mixed Use Downtown Special Exception
Zone and permits a variety of uses specific to this property as well as site specific
‘amendments to setbacks, open space and parking. Other than the general MD Zone uses,
Specific uses include a “Museum” and “Micro Brewery’ that can be established on the
Trinity Church lands.

‘The new owners have examined the uses currently permitted and have decided to submit
the proposal before the Committee respecting the proposed changes. In addition,
application for consent (lot addition) has been received in the Planning Department to join
the two (2) parcels to create one (1) parcel. Approval of this consent application is pending
‘on the decision of this application/proposal.

Page 41 of 109

2018-027-03 Pages
Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment

4137 George Street and Trintty Church (former)

‘Owner: 1983874 Ontario Limited

‘Agent: Tracy Zander, ZanderPlan

File D14-027 seco)

‘The following schedules are attached to this report:

‘Schedule “A” - sketch showing location of subject lands;

Schedule “B”- photos of subject lands;

Schedule “C”- concept of proposed development with elevations;

Schedule “D”- excerpts from the Public Meeting minutes; and,

Schedule “E"- comments received.

Schedule “F”- Planning Rationale prepared by Tracy Zander, ZanderPLAN

Schedule “G”- _ Downtown/Waterfront Master Plan and Urban Design Strategy - Map
ANALYSISIOPTIONS

Zoning and Official Plan Information:

Official Plan Designation: “Downtown and Central Waterfront Area” within the

“Mixed Use Node" subject to Skyline Development Area
Policies and Transitional Area Policies

Proposed OP Designation: No change requested

Existing Zoning RO-1 Multiple Residential Special Exception Zone, in
part, and MD-2 Mixed Use Downtown Special Exception
Zone, in part

Proposed Zoning: ‘The development area (existing parking area, church and

annex to be demolished) of the site is proposed to be
developed for two (2), three (3) storey » residential
apartment buildings with forty-eight (48) dweling units
and associated parking (underground and surface). The
site specific zone would address reductions in typical
setbacks for the exterior side yard, interior side yard and
rear yard; the location of parking in the proposed exterior
side yard (adjacent to George Street) within five (6.0)
metres of a street line; and, relief from the requirement to
supply an equipped children’s play area.

Site Characteristics Lot Area: 0.32 hectares (0.80 ac)
(ence joined) Frontage (George St): 118.3m

Frontage (Gilmour St): 31.2m

Frontage (Clarissa St) 30.5 m

‘The subject properties currently contain the former Trinity Anglican Church building at the
eastem side of the property which fronts on Clarissa Street, the two-storey stucco annex
‘added to the back of the church building and a large gravel parking area to the west. The
site slopes from east to west, falling by approximately six (6.0) metres from Clarissa St. to
Gilmour St Schedule “B” to this report are photos of the subject lands.

Page 42 of 109

2018-027-03 Page 4
Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment

4137 George Strest and Trintty Church (former)

‘Owner: 1983874 Ontario Limited

‘Agent: Tracy Zander, ZanderPlan

File 014-027 z.0

‘Surrounding Land Uses:

North: ‘The lands to the north (north side of George Street - immediately across from
the subject lands) are zoned R4-General Residential Zone and are occupied
by older two storey single family and semi-detached dwellings.

East: ‘The lands to the east (east side of Clarissa Street) are zoned R8-2 Multiple
Residential Site Specific Zone and are occupied by a six (6) storey residential
building (Marguerita Residence) with associated surface parking. Continuing
‘on the east side of Clarissa Street, the lands are zoned MD ~ Mixed Use:
Downtown Zone and are occupied by a single family dwelling and the
Ultramar Gas Bar and Circle K convenience store.

South: The lands to the south are zoned MD- Mixed Use Downtown, in part and T-
MD-1 ~ Mixed Use Downtown Temporary Special Exception Zone, in part,
‘and are occupied by the Leon's Fumiture and Appliance Store with
associated parking, and a chip wagon located on the easter parcel

West: The lands to the west (opposite side of Gilmour Street) is occupied by Rotary
Park which extends from Gilmour Street to Beecher Street, between George
Street to the north and Buell's Creek to the south. tary Park consists of an
‘outdoor skating rink, basketball court, playground, open space and Butlers
Creek with a building fronting on Gilmour Street which is occupied by the
Brockvile Gymnastic Academy.

Public Participation

‘The application for Zoning By-law Amendment has proceeded through the normal review
process. On 6 February 2018, a Public Meeting was held by the Economic Development
and Planning Committee. Notice of the Public Meeting was advertised in the “Brockville
Recorder and Times” Newspaper and the "Brockville This Week’ newspaper on 11 January
2018 and was circulated to property owners with 120.0 metres of the subject lands. In
‘addition, signs were posted on the subject properties advertising that the lands are the
subject of Application for Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014,
‘Comments from City Departments and affected agencies were also solicited. An excerpt,
from the Minutes of the Public Meeting held on 6 February 2018 is attached as Schedule
“D" to this report.

Comments Received prior the Public Meeting Schedule “E"

1. B. Caskenette, Chief Building Official
* No concern with the proposal but would like to note that
© A building permit willbe required for each new building;

Page 43 of 109

2018.027-03 Pages
Proposed Zoning By-taw Amendment

157 George Street and Trinity Church (former)

‘Owner: 1983874 Ontario Limited

‘Agent: Tracy Zander, ZanderPlan

File D14-027 ae)

© Ademolition Permit will be required for all existing structures;

© Per OBC, separate services shall be provided for each lot and shall not
cross property boundaries and shall be connected to municipal
services. Currently two separate properties.

2. C. Cosgrove, Director of Operations
+ The Operations Department has no comments with respect to this application.
A traffic impact analysis was completed for a previous application which
proposed 94 units. As this application is for 48 units, additional analysis is not
required

3. Steven Allen, Environmental Services, Supervisor of Engineering
* Not opposed to the application.

4, Sandra MacDonald, City Clerk
‘* Nocomments,

5. Robert Nolan, Director of Economic Development (verbal)
‘+ No concer with the proposed amendment

6 Greg Healy, Chief Fire Prevention Officer
‘* No concer with the proposed amendment.

7. Mike Dakin, CRCA, Resource Planner
‘+ No concern with the proposed amendments. CRCA staff will conduct a full
review at the time of Site Plan submission.

8 Jeremy Godfrey, Bell Canada
‘+ No concem; however there is a live cable currently servicing the church.
Please contact us prior to demolition.

9. Alice Coleman, Enbridge Gas Distribution
‘© No objection,

10. Neighbour
‘+ Opposed to the application

‘© Increased traffic will result in danger to children.

© The face’ of downtown Brockville will deteriorate with the addition of
rnon-picturesque apartment buildings. Rental properties should be
move uptown so that we may preserve as much as possible the
historic look of downtown.

‘© Should Leon’s leave and another apartment building be putin is place,
this would further deteriorate the southwest entry to downtown.

Page 44 of 109

2018.027-03 Pages
Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment

137 Goorge Street and Teinlty Church (former)

Owner: 1983874 Ontario Limited

‘Agent: Tracy Zander, ZanderPlan

File D14-027 vasa)

© Currently a public location and it should stay so. Should build a nice
park “Trinity Park’ for example or leave the area vacant for better
proposals that fit our beautiful (for now) downtown core of this fantastic
town,

Comments Received after the Public Meeting:

1. Heritage Brockville

‘+ Not impressed with the design. The previous building, proposed for the
property, was exceptionally well designed.

Large featureless wall with small windows.

© Poor, unimagined design.

© Should have larger non-operable windows.

© The design is not in keeping with the traditional character of the
community.

‘+ Baloonies are non-existent. Patio doors could be incorporated into the design
with a metal barrier to prevent egress.

‘© Official Plan states that the City “may require, at the City’s sole discretion that
proponents submit design guidelines with development applications
establishing how the policies of this (Official) Plan have been considered and
addressed. Such guidelines may also be required to address related issues
of... architectural treatments.”

+ Heritage Brockville requests that the City ask the developer to resubmit a
more pleasing, visually engaging and livable design. The downtown core
deserves something better than these buildings.

Provincial Policy Considerations:

‘The Provincial Policy Statement 2014 (PPS) issued under Section 3 of the Planning Act
provides policy direction on matters of Provincial interest related to land use planning and
development. Section 3 of the Planning Act further directs that Council decisions affecting
planning matters “shall be consistent with” the Provincial Policy Statement,

‘The Planning Rationale prepared by Tracey Zander, ZanderPlan, adequately addresses
the applicable PPS Policies. The Planning Department concurs with the consultant that the
proposed development is consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the PPS
2014.

Official Plan Considerations

‘The Official Plan provides guidance on how to manage future growth, development, and
‘change within the City of Brockville.

Page 45 of 109

2018-02703 Page 7
Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment

4137 George Street and Trinity Church (former)

‘Owner: 1983874 Ontario Limited

‘Agent: Tracy Zandor, ZanderPlan

File D14-027 sao

‘The goal of the Official Pian is to create a sustainable City in terms of health and vitality,
that is economically viable and diverse, has high quality municipal services and amenities,
and is well planned.

‘The subject property is designated under Schedule 1 - City Structure, of the Official Plan,
‘as “Downtown and Central Waterfront Area within the Mixed Use Node’. In addition, the
subject property is subject to the following constraints and considerations:

‘+ Schedule 2 ~ Design Strategy — Downtown and Central Waterfront Area, of the
Official Plan, identifies the subject land as being subject to Policy 4.2.3. Specifically,
the property is subject to policies pertaining to the “Transitional Area” and "Skyline
Development’ Policies. Policy 4.2.3 is discussed further elsewhere in this report.

Section 2.3 outlines strategic planning themes which include “A Sustainable, Healthy, and
Vital City’, “An Economically Strong and Diverse City’, “A High Quallty of City Services and
‘Amenities’, and “A Well-Planned Responsive City’. Specifically, "A Sustainable, Healthy,
and Vital City’ outlines, among others, that the City is to “ensure that all citizens have,
equitable, accessible, affordable, energy efficient housing choices, which are supportive of
a variety of lifestyles at various stages of life.”

‘Through approved objectives, the City is also to “revitalize the Downtown and Central
Waterfront Area as mixed commercial, residential, cultural, social, tourism and
entertainment destinations, while recognizing and conserving its cultural heritage
resources’ and “provide for a variety of housing forms, tenures and levels of affordability
through development, redevelopment, intensification and infiing projects.”

‘Section 3 addresses building a healthy and sustainable City. Through Policy 3.2.2 which
describes the City Structure, it is noted that the City should direct opportunities for
intensification and infil to Mixed Use Nodes and Corridors.

Section 3.2.6.1 states among others, that it shall be the policy of the City that “as a first
Priority, the City shall promote and direct growth through ‘infil, intensification and
redevelopment of vacant and/or underutilized land to the Downtown and Central Waterfront
Area”

‘Section 3.5.1.2 provides information relating to affordable housing. This section states
among others, that it shall be the policy of the City that housing be affordable and
accessible to low and moderate income households, increase residential densities in
‘appropriate locations, and provide for redevelopment and residential intensification, where
practical. This includes the redevelopment of existing single-use and underutilized areas
with full municipal services, especially where the land is in close proximity to human

‘The City shall also develop zoning provisions that are sufficiently flexible to permit a broad

Page 46 of 109

2018-027-03
Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment

137 George Strost and Trinity Church (former)
‘Owner: 1983874 Ontario Limited

‘Agent: Tracy Zander, ZanderPlan

File D14-027 oe 01

and varied range of housing forms, types, sizes and tenures, and are encouraged to
Provide opportunities for more affordable housing to be provided in the Downtown and
Central Waterfront Area.

The proposed residential development of forty-eight (48) residential apartment units
satisfies the above policies by being developed on an underutilized lot. Existing services
are readily available, including public transit (red bus and evening routes intersecting at the
south-west comer of King Street and Gimour Street). Nearby parkland and open spaces
are available to serve the residents (Rotary Park).

Infiling of vacant areas is a priority through residential intensification per Policy 3.2.6.1.
Council is also to provide for increased densities in all land use categories within the
Downtown and Central Waterfront Area, particularly along transportation corridors and in
nodes to support public transit.

Section 4.2.2, Permitted Uses, states among others that:

“Subject fo the Land Use and Built Form policies of Section 4.2.3, the following
uses shall assist in guiding the broad range of development pennitted within the
Downtown and Central Waterfront Area’, as identified on Schedule 1, recognizing
that a more definitive list shall be provided in the Zoning By-law.

2. Medium and High density residential uses shall be permitted including triplex
‘welings, fourplex dwellings, row or block townhouse dwellings, converted
‘dwellings containing more than two dwelling units, small-scale apartments,
low-rise and high-rise apartment buildings; apartment hotels; multiple-
attached dwellings and other similar medium and high profile residential
buildings.”

Section 4.2.3, subsection 11, states that for lands “Within transitional areas of the
Downtown and Central Waterfront Area identified on Schedule 2, the height, density and
massing of the development shall be compatible with the adjacent low density residential
uses through the use of appropriate transitions including but not limited to lower building
‘heights, additional setbacks and buffers, building treatments, location of parking, and
landscaping’

‘The proposed development has been proposed at three (3) storeys, 14.2 metres (peak),
satisfying the above policies relating to height and massing of the building. The proposed
height provides appropriate transition between the edge of the Downtown core and the
older two (2) storey residential dwellings located along George Street. The height of the
proposed buildings should have minimal impact on existing light (sunshine) and should not
create any adverse effects on sightlines or shadows compared to previous designs for the
site,

Page 47 of 109

2018-02703 Page
Proposed Zoning By.1aw Amendment

187 George Street and Trintity Church (former)

Owner: 1983874 Ontario Limited

‘Agent: Tracy Zander, ZanderPlan

File D14-027 rasa

‘Addressing issues raised at the public meeting as well as comments received from
Heritage Brockville after the Public Meeting:

1. John McDougall, 166 Church Street ~ Opposed the application but had a specific
‘question relating to blasting. At the Public Meeting Mr. McDougall asked “should
blasting be required, who is liable for any damages to my property?”

Staff has investigated the issue and have found that should a Blast Permit be
‘needed an application to the City of Brockville Environmental Services Department is
required. Through this process a pre and post blast survey are required. Any
damages found as a result of the blasting are the responsibility of the blast
contractor. However, at this time, the applicant is not anticipating the need for
blasting

2. Heritage Brockville provided verbal comments at the Public Meeting and submitted
written comments following the meeting concerning the design of the building being
poor and unsightly (attached as part of Schedule “E” to this report); the Official
Plan, Section 4.2.3, subsection 17, states, among others that “Any development
proposed greater than three storeys but less than or equal to five storeys shall only
be permitted subject fo a site-specific amendment to the Zoning By-law’, and shall
satisty Signature Architecture and Angular Plane requirements and be consistent
with the City’s approved Downtown and Waterfront Master Plan and Urban Design
‘Strategy (DWMPUDS).

Based on above policy, Staff are ofthe opinion that the proposed structures satisfy
design criteria outlined within the Oficial Plan and the DWMPUDS as the property is
located within a transitional area of the Downtown Core and not included within the
DWMPUDS policy area (see Schedule “G" attached to this report for a map
cutlning the policy area of the DWMPUDS): However, Staff would like to assure
Committee that best efforts will be used during the Site Plan Control process
regarding design elements for the building. These design elements can include but
are nat limited to, building articulation, cornices/mouldings, materials, and colours

Staff would also like to remind Committee that Site Plan Control is a delegated
approval to Staff; however, the application, site plan drawing(s) and elevation
drawing(s) are circulated to Council for their review. At this stage, should any
‘member of Council wish to see the application on the Council floor, this request can
be made,

With reference to the intended separation of high density development from lower profile
existing or proposed residential uses, the site is surrounded on three sides by municipal
roadways with lower density residential uses to the north separated by George St. The
preliminary concepts for the development indicate the intent for the buildings to be located

Page 48 of 109

2018-02703 Page 10
Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment

4137 George Street and Trinity Church (former)

Owner: 1983874 Ontario Limited

‘Agent: Tracy Zander, ZanderPlan

File D14-027 ozo:

at a minimum required front yard setback of 1.0 metre from the George Street property line
and 1.0 metre from Clarissa Street property line, with no additional encroachments for
balconies and air conditioning units as these elements are not being proposed.

Landscaped area totalling 1,062.4 square metres is available for use by the residents
located adjacent the buildings and Rotary Park which is a fully equipped municipal park is
available directly across/adjacent Gilmore Street.

In general, there do not appear to be any conflicts with the Official Plan policies with
respect to a project of this nature in this location. In fact, it would advance many of the
City’s goals and objectives,

Zoning By-law Considerations:

The subject properties are currently zoned R9-1 Multiple Residential Special Exception
Zone, in part, and MD-2 Mixed Use Downtown Special Exception Zone, in part
‘Accordingly, an application has been made for an amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014
to rezone the subject lands to R8 ~ Multiple Residential Special Exception Zone. An
apartment dweling is a permitted use within the RS — Multiple Residential Zone.

Given that the development as proposed would not meet the entire pre-existing zone
provisions established for lands which are zoned R9-1 and MD-2, there would be site
specific elements required to address all non-standard items. Accordingly, it would be
necessary for Council to concur with the overall rezoning as well as the non-standard
‘elements which would be implemented on a site-specific basis through the creation of a
new site-specific zone.

The following is a discussion of those elements to be addressed as “special exception”
‘elements for 1983874 Ontario Limited:

) Encroachment in a Front Yard

Currently the zone provisions for the R9-1 Zone permits the building to be
setback at 0.0 metres from George Street The applicant has requested
through the proposed amendment to increase the current permission from 0.0,
metres to 1.0 metre for the western building located at the comer of Gilmore
Street and George Street as well as a request for a reduction to the minimum
front yard requirement along Clarissa Street to 1.0 metre,

Staff have reviewed the request and find the proposed requests minor. The
proposed setbacks are an increase to what is currently permitted and should
have minimal impact on adjacent properties. George Street has a 12.2 metre
road allowance.

Page 49 of 109

2018-027-05 Page 11
Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment

4187 George Strost and Trintty Chureh (former)

‘Owner: 1983874 Ontario Limited

‘Agent: Tracy Zander, ZanderPlan

File 014-027 snzous

It should also be noted that the above request for a 1.0 metre setback from
the property line is to the proposed building face. An allowance for eaves on
the building will need to be incorporated into the by-law should Committee
and Council be looking at approving the request. The applicant has provided
and eave size of 0.75 metres, therefore requiring an additional encroachment
from 1.0 metre to 0.25 metres to accommodate the proposed eaves,

i) Location of Parking Area

Zoning By-law 050-2014 establishes setbacks to parking areas for apartment
dwellings. Based on Section 3.33b)v)2.b., parking areas for apartments can
only be located within an interior side or rear yard. In this case, the setback
for the buildings is requested at 1.0 metre, therefore establishing the setback
to parking at 1.0 metre. The applicant has requested to locate the parking
area at a setback of 0.0 metres to a street linelproperty line and within the
front yard.

Staff has reviewed the request and have no concem with the proposed
setback of 0.0 m to parking. There are many properties within the downtown
core which have parking areas with no setbacks from the street line.

ii) Children’s Pay Area

‘The application requests elimination of the requirement to supply a children’s
play area on the grounds of the apartment.

Having looked at the proposal and due the proximity to Downtown and other
‘open space options (Rotary Park), Staff is of the opinion that the proposed
children’s play area could be waived and relief from the requirement be
granted. Staff would like to advise the Committee that Cash-in-Lieu of
Parkland dedication may be required as part of the Site Plan Agreement.
‘This amount is a 5% payment based on the value of the vacant land
(appraisal required) completed prior to building permit issuance.

‘Accordingly, prior to development, the project is subject to site plan approval. ‘This process
fensures appropriate design, servicing and compliance with zoning provisions. It also
provides the City with the opportunity to impose conditions of approval, financial and
otherwise, including cash-in-ieu of parkiand dedication, ft so chooses.

‘The recommendations in this report, to create zoning to reflect the site-specific
circumstances for the development project, are prepared with the presumption that Council
‘would support this approach. In doing 0, it is also recommended that Council consider
Section 34(17) of the Planning Act and deciare that no further notice is required, despite

Page 50 of 109

2018-027-03 Page 12
Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment

137 George Street and Trintty Church (former)

‘Owner: 1983874 Ontario Limited

‘Agent: Tracy Zander, ZanderPlan

Fillo 14-027 2014

the changes that have been proposed (addition of eave encroachment request) by the
applicant after the holding of the public meeting,

Based on review of all comments received, examination of the Official Plan, the
DWMPUDS and Zoning By-law 050-2014 and the pending consent application to merge
the properties, staff recommend that the request for rezoning on both properties be
‘approved in order to permit the proposed apartment buildings to be developed.

‘The subject properties are located in a prominent location within the City and will provide
another source of housing options. The proposal is utilizing existing services and is directly
adjacent to public transit stops and a municipal park.

‘Should the recommendations above be accepted by Council, the proposed zone would
read similar to the following:

°RB-3 (137 George Street and Trinity Church (former))
The uses permitted in the R8-3 Zone shall be two (2) apartment dwellings containing

‘a maximum of forty-eight (48) dwelling units. The zone provisions for the R8-3 Zone
shall be the same as for the R8 Zone save and except for the following

Minimum Front Yard — Clarissa Street (measured othe | 10m
building face)

Minimum Front Yard — George Street (measured tothe | 10m |
building face) _

Minimum Front Yard — Gilmore Street (measured tothe | 25m

building face)

Minimum Interior Side Yard (measured to the building | 46m

face)

Notwithstanding Section 3.33 of this By-law, parking may be permitted in the front
yard adjacent to George Street at a setback of 0.0 metres from the street line.

Notwithstanding Section 3.4 of this By-law, a Children's Play Area is not required.

Notwithstanding Section 3.51 #) of this By-Law, an eave may be constructed at a
minimum setback of 0.25 metres.”

POLICY IMPLICATIONS:

As stated in the Analysis section of this report, the proposed zoning amendments are
consistent with the PPS and with Official Plan,

Page 51 of 109

2018-027-03 Page 13,
Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment

437 George Street and Trinity Church (former)

‘Owner: 1983874 Ontario Limited

‘Agent: Tracy Zander, ZanderPlan

File D14-027 ase)

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS:

All costs associated with the development and lot adjustments conceming the subject
properties are the responsiblity of the Owner.

CONCLUSION:

Following review of the PPS, the Official Plan, Zoning By-law 050-2014, as well as
submissions received respecting the request for Zoning By-law amendment, it is
reasonable to rezone the subject properties,

‘The proposed amendments to Zoning By-law 050-2014 will intensify, utilize existing
services/infrastructure and add to the mix of housing types available within the Downtown
and Central Waterfront Area.

Concepts for development remain generally consistent with those reviewed through public
‘consultation, and itis recommended that no further public consultation or notice be given.

‘The recommendations at the beginning of this report reflect this conclusion,

xe Abu flfe

David Dick, CPA ‘irdrew McGinnis, MCIP, RPP, Dipl MLM.
Director of Corporate Service Planner It

and Acting Director Planning

B.Casseiman
City Manager

SCHEDULE

TO REPORT 2018-027-03

SUBJECT PROPERTIES

601 10.25 abe

Page 53 of 109

SCHEDULE “B” TO REPORT 2018-027-03


Page 54 of 109


SCHEDULE “C” TO REPORT 2018-027-03

n 2 (MO-2) to Residential Eighth Clarissa Street
Density Exception (Ro) Mores,
*

[1 tanto be zon
Etre Ping once
SG wwe

Fs Snivacevtng Ate

7

Furniture

none

24-Unit Apartment
Footprint = 694.3m2

anaes

Tons Pick
Up area

Version Date: January 42


ast BATON West STN



Page 58 of 109
SCHEDULE “D” TO REPORT 2018-027-03

[aq Public Meeting
BROCKVILLE. Economic Development &
SOFT LOSS Planning Committee
COMMITTEE MINUTES Tuesday, February 06, 2018, 6:00 pm

City Hall, Council Chambers

Committee Members:
Councillor M. Kalivas, Chair

Councillor 3. Baker

Councillor L. Bursey

Councillor D, LeSueur

Councillor Mayor D, Henderson, Ex-Officio

Staff:
S. MacDonald, City Clerk

A, McGinnis, Planner IT

D. Dick, Director of Corporate Services

‘The Chair called the meeting to order at 6:00 pm.
REPORT

1, 2018-012-02
Proposed Zoning By-Law Amendment to
Zoning By-Law 050-2014,
137 George Street and Trinity Church Lands, Brockville

THAT Report 2018-012-02 be received as information and that a report on
this matter be prepared by Staff for consideration of the Economic
Development Planning Committee at a future meeting.

CARRIED

Councillor Kalivas announced the Public Meeting procedure.

‘A. McGinnis announced that Notice of the Public Meeting was advertised in
the Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper and the Brockville This Week
‘on January 1, 2018 and was circulated to property Owners within 120.0
‘metres (400.0 feet) of the subject property and various Agencies and
Departments. In addition, signs were posted on the subject property
advising that the lands are the subject of an Application for Amendment to
City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014,

Page 1 of 4

Page 59 of 109

Economic Development and Pianning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, February 06, 2018

Councillor Kalivas, Chair, asked that any person wanting further notice of
the passage of the proposed amendment should give their full name,
address, e-mail and postal code to the Secretary prior to leaving the
meeting. Councillor Kalivas identified that “Request for Information
Sheets” were located at the back of the room.

Councillor Kalivas reviewed the procedures for the Public Meeting.

‘A, McGinnis provided an overview of the proposed amendments to the
official plan and zoning by-law.

Tracy Zander, Zander Plan Inc. spoke to the application representing the
developers. She confirmed that the proposed plan does include sufficient

parking, with a single entrance to the site. The developers are requesting
relief from the playground requirement as the Rotary Park is in very close
proximity to the development.

Councillor Baker asked that the report indicate whether there has been any
relief granted to other developments for playground contributions during
this term of council.

Councillor Bursey asked if any of the units will be accessible. Stefano
Ferrante replied that the development will include four (4) accessible units
in each building; AODA compliant washrooms,

John McDougall, 166 Church Street - J. McDougall spoke in opposition to
the proposal. He noted that previous development of the Leon site required
blasting which caused damage to his home. S. Ferrante indicated that
there would not be any blasting on the site. A. McGinnis confirmed that @
blasting permit would be required which includes the requirement of pre
and post blasting studies. T. Zander indicated that there is no intention to
biast.

Paul Bullock, 151 King St £ - P. Bullock spoke in opposition to the
Proposal. He noted his disappointment with the construction that includes
‘small windows and no balconies. Mr. Ferrante responded that the size of
windows is maximum permitted under the building code.

Gwen Priestly, 130 Church Street - G. Priestly spoke in opposition to the

proposal. She noted the existing problems with parking on the street
making it difficult for residents to get in and out of their driveways on

Page 2 of 4

Page 60 of 109

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, February 06, 2018

Page 304

Church Street. She noted that when the roof was installed at Rotary Park
that the construction caused her house to shake. What are implications
during this construction? She asked how long it would take to demolish the
site and build new. The Developer estimated demolition to take 2-3
months and construction, one building at a time approximately 14 months;
it was planned to start with the building on the east side and use the lands
on the west side for construction lay down area and worker parking.

Dave Sheridan, Maitland spoke in opposition to the proposal. He expressed
his disappointment with the demolition of the church. If components of the
church were donated to the City, it could be repurposed/reconstructed at
other City properties.

Doug Grant, 8 Orchard Street spoke in opposition to the project.

D. Van Vliet 172 Church Street spoke in opposition to the proposal.
Concerns noted with traffic and the safety of neighbourhood children. He
questioned need for apartments in the downtown core.

‘Adele Bradley, 40 Winters Court thought that Trinity Church would be a
good location for St Vincent de Paul Centre drop in centre.

Councillor LeSueur asked about demolition and the cost and/or feasibility
of saving portions of the church, Chris Carson spoke to the stone within
the church. It is expensive to take the stone down piece by piece It is,
difficult to put a monetary value of the stone. The current owners tried for
many years to find someone with interest in taking the stone. The
developers would be interested if feasible to re-purpose materials.

T. Zander addressed traffic concerns the proposal does meet the
requirements of the zoning bylaw. There is a market for apartment units
within the City.

Joe Botham happy to see developer in downtown Brockville. Pleased to see
property developed instead of sitting idle and unused. He added it was
‘encouraging to have more residential units’ downtown which will make the
downtown come alive again.

The meeting adjourned at 7:16 pm.

Page 61 of 109
SCHEDULE “l

wae erry oF arockvinte

PLANNING DEPARTMENT - BUILDING SERVICES DIVISION

INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM

TO REPORT 2018-027-03

To: "ANDREW MCGINNIS ~ PLANNER I
corr:
FROM: BRENT CASKENETTE - CHIEF BUILDING OFFICIAL

SUBJECT: ZONING BY-LAW AMENDMENT- FILE 014.027
187 GEORGE ST AND TRINITY CHURCH
DATE: JANUARY 19, 2018

Andrew:

Our review of the proposal for the above noted subject site development has been
‘completed and at this tine would sdvise ofthe folowing:

+ A Building Permit wil be required for each new building

‘+ ADemoition Permit wil be required for all existing structures,

+ Per OBC, separate services shall be provided ‘or each lt and shall not crass
property boundaries and shall be connected to municipal services. Currently two
‘Separate properties.

No adeitional concems at this time. A complete review will be required at time of
‘application fora building permit.

Rogards,

a

“BRENT i, CASKENETTE - CHIEF BUILDING OFFIGIAL
{ity ot wrockle, One King stoct West, P.. Box $000, Srocil, OM KSV TAS
‘To (015) 3028772, oct Att Fax (613) 400.2700 Ema bonckeneteabreckecom

Page 62 of 109

Dayna Golledge

From: onal Cosgrove
Sent: January 12,2018 353 PM

To: Andrew McGinnis

ce: Dayna Golledge: Steve Allen

sul RE Memo - Notice for Zoning Amendment Application - Fle D14-027
Andrew

‘The Operations Department has no comments with respect to this application, A traffic impact analysis was completed
fora previous application which proposed 94 units. As this application i for 48 units, additional analysis ot required,

onal

From: Dayna Golledge
Sents January 11, 2018 12:36 PM

‘To: Conal Cosgrove; Peter Raabe; Steve Alen; Scot Fraser; Greg Healy; Brent Caskenette
Subject: Memo - Notice for Zoning Amendment Appication- Fle D14-027

Good Afternoon,

Attached you wil find the notice for Zoning Amendment Application D14-027 going to The Economic Development
Planning Committee on February 6, 2038.

Please reply with any comments regarding these applictions by no later thon January 21, 2018,

you have any specific questions in relation to these application, please contact Andrew McGinnis, Planner Il, at 613-
342-8772, extension 4421;
‘or email to: amcginnis@brockuille.com

Thank you,

Dayna Golledge

‘Admnisratve Coordinate - Planing Deparenent, Cty of Brokile
Nat One King Set West, P.0.Box £000, Broce, ON KBV TAS
‘Tel o13.342 8772 ont 4489

Fax 613.408.2768

Era planrina@brocuile.com

A oncom ett ti ea
aacressen Aces is message onyere coe uneutoree youre at te none repens,
Se rout Pease meet cone the tener youve ected he mesape ner


Page 63 of 109

[a]

BROCKVILLE
Memorandum BROCKVITE
ana ister
Date: January 26, 2018
Te anton Mins
ey
From: ‘Steven Allen, C.E.T., MM.

‘Supervisor of Engineering

Subject Application for Rezoning for 137 George Street ~ Zanderplan ~ Tracy

Zander, City of Brockville.

‘The Environmental Services Department has reviewed the request to change the
current zoning of 137 George Street from (M2) and (9-1) to (R-8) ~ Multiple
Residential Special Exception Zone to facilitate the development of (2) 24 unit
apartment buildings with a common parking area between, The existing church will
be removed to allow for the redevelopment. Environmental Services are not

‘opposed to the application,

SEAsa

Page 64 of 109

Dayna Golledg

From: Sandra MacDonald
Sent: January 12, 2018 2:19 PM

To: Dayna Golledge

Subject: RE: Memo - Notice for Zoning Amendment Application - File D14-027

The Clerk's Office has no comments.

Sandi

From: Dayna Goliedge

Sent: January-11-18 12:36 PM

‘To: Conal Cosgrove; Peter Raabe; Steve Allen; Scott Fraser; Greg Healy; Brent Caskenette
‘Subject: Memo - Notice for Zoning Amendment Application - Fe Di4-027

Good Afternoon,

[Attached you will find the notice for Zoning Amendment Application D14-027 going to The Economic Development
Planning Committee on February 6, 2028.

Please reply wth any comments regarding these applications by no later than January 24, 2018.

you have any specific questions in relation to these applications, please contact Andrew McGinnis, Planner I, at 613-
342-8772, extension 4421;
cor email to: ameginnis@brocivile.com

‘Thank you,

Dayna Golledge

‘Adminstatve Cooranate- Planing Deparment. Cty of Brocklle
Mal: One King Stet West P.O Bax £000, roca, ON KEV TAS
‘el 013.342 8772, ox 4483

Fax 013408 2768,

nal plannina@brocvie.com

Osram ct dane et tp ene ef

CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE

REVIEW FORM
FIRE DEPARTMENT

Page 65 of 109

Date: January 18, 2018

‘Address of Subject Property: 137 George Street & Trinty Church

FIRE REQUIRMENTS REQUIRED NOT REQUIRED |
Ste Inspection oa a
Fie Code Updates a a
Other | o o

Fire comments:

1. The Fire Department has no concems with the proposed Zoning Amendment for the

above address.

2. This Department wishes to be circulated forthe buliing permit.

Fire Review Signature:

Mghe ke tee


Page 66 of 109

Andrew McGinnis
From: Mike Dakin <MDakin@erea.ca>
Sent January-19-18 1151 AM
Te: Andrew McGinnis
Dayna Golledge: Tracy Zander (tacy@zanderplan.com); Sean Czaharyeski
Subject: 1014-027 (137 George St) -CRCA Comments

Andrew,

CCRCA staff have received the notice for zoning amendment application D14-027 for the two apartment buildings proposed
'3t 137 George Street. Our primary interests forthe proposed development are the provision of adequate on-site
stormwater management and adherence to source water protection policies.

Stormwater Management
‘Staff have completed a preliminary review ofthe Servicing and Stormwater Management Report (Robinson Land
Development, Noverber 2017) and are satisfied, at this time, withthe general stormwater management approach for the
purposes of the zoning by-law amendment. The approach, as detailed in the report, is consistent with CRCA stormwater
‘management guidelines. Detaled review of the report and SWM design willbe completed as part ofthe CRCA'S review at
the site Plan Control stage. We will provide adaitional comments at tha time.

Source Water Protection
‘The location ofthe proposed two apartment buildings at 137 George Street inthe City of Brockville is within PZ-2 of the
Brockaille intake Protection Zone. A summary ofthe relevant policies from the Cataraqui Source Protection Plan (the Plan)
can be found online at: htp://www.cleanwatercataraqul.ca/maps/CickableX20Maps/Fact20Sheets/IPZ2-Brockvile-
‘Municipality pf. In reviewing these policies, staff have determined that there are no significant drinking water threats
connected withthe proposed development (Le. aplication of pesticdes,storage/application of agicutural source material
‘and use of land for livestock requiring additional risk management measures. As noted, the property is within a highly
vulnerable aquifer, however, the proposal doesnot include activites that would requir additional risk management

In conclusion, staff have no objections with approval of zoning amendment application 014-027 based on our review of
‘natural hazards, natural heritage, and water quality and quantity protection pois. Please inform this office of any
decisions made by the City with regard to this application.

Please contact me should you have any questions.
Best regards,
Mike

Michael Dakin
Resource Planer

‘Cataraqui Region Conservation Authority

1641 Perth Road, POBox 160, Glenburn ON, KOH 150
Phone: (613) 5464228 ext. 28 - Fa: (613) 47-6474
Toll Fee for Area code (613): 1877-9562722,

Vitus onthe web: wnccaca
re leanatercatareoutca
swvcataraqutrallca


Page 67 of 109

ae Bel 2greny Sostrey
Fron: Godfrey, Jeremy <jereny.godfreydbelt .ca>
Sent: Sanuary’21)" Sole Siz

For. bayna Gol ledge
Subjec RE: Beno - Notice for zoning amendment application - File 014-027
Attachments: eno = "137 George Street ~ Pile DLA-027- ar

HeTTo bayna,

Bel] would Tike to comment that we have a Tive cable into the church that will need
fo be disconnected

prior to any demolition. should this proceed please provide my contact information
fo the developer to

make these arrangenents as well as to plan for servicing the new apartments.

Regards

Jeremy Godfrey
Specialist “Network Provisioning
Pe gts 385-3257 "ms 613 340-4887

Dayna col edge {nai 1t0:0G01edgedbrockviTe.cox]
‘Thursday, Sandary 11, 2038 19:56 pw
To! éonal’ Cosgrove <ccasgreveebrockiTlescom; peter Raabe <praabeabrockvi Te. com
{sal lengbrockville.com; scott Fraser <sfraserébrockvilepolice.com: Greg Healy
<ghealyebrockvitie.com; Brent Caskeneste. cbeaskenettedbreckvi Tie, com

sibjects Meno ~ Notice for Zoning Awendnent application — Five Did-G27

Good afternoon,
Setached!you'ni11 Find the notice for Zoning Anendnent Applicaton 034-027 going to
‘the Economic

Developsent Planning Conniteee on February 6, 2018.

Please reply with any coments regarding these appiications by no later than
January’ 24, ”2018.

Xf you have any specific questions in relation to these applications, please
Contact andrew weginnts. i

Planner Tr, at 613-342-8772, exzension 4421;

‘or email to: amcginnis@brockville.com

Thank you,

bayna coTledge
Administrative Coordinator - Planning Department, city of srockvitle
ail? one.king Street West, P.0,60x 8000, Brockville, ON KEV 7AS
‘Fel. 613.342.8772, ext, 4463,

Fax!_613/498 2793

Email: pianning@brockvitle.com

Bceflease, consider, the envionsant before printing this emai)
Disclaimer: ‘the information in this message is confidential and may be Tegally
privileged. re ig intended
Solely for she addressee: Access to this message by anyone else is unauthorized. xf

are nov the
Yitetded”recipfene, any disclosure, copying, or distribution of the message, or any
‘Taken by you in reliance on it, fs prohibited and may be unlawful. Please
Vamediately contact the sender
iPryou have received this message in error.

Page 1


Page 68 of 109

January 22, 2018

Andrew McGinnis
Planner I

ity of Brockville

Pianning Department

‘One King Street West PO Box 5000
Brockville, ON KBV 7A5

Dear Andrew MeGinis,
Re: Zoning By-law Amendment
487 George Street & Trinity Church

City of Brockville
Flle No. 14-027

Enbridge Gas Distribution does nat object tothe proposed appication(s).
Enbridge Gas Distribution reserves the right to amend or remove development conditions

Sincerely,


Page 69 of 109

Director of Planning

ity Hall

1 King Street West

PO. Box 6000, Brockville, ON
KEV 705

Brockville, 17 January 2018

‘Subject: The proposed change of R91 and MD-2 zone to RE-Multiple Residential Spectal
Exception Zone

Dear Sir/Madam,

‘We have received an invitation to the Public Meeting regarding the change in zoning at 137
‘George Street, better known as the Trinity Church location

‘We oppose the proposal to buld two rental apartment buildings at this location for many
reasons, and hope the location can be used for other purposes which more reflect the needs of
‘the clty and the public. Please read our arguments below:

~ The current infrastructure around 187 George Street does not support an adaitional 48 rental
units Traffic wil kely dramatically increase, which poses a danger to children frequenting
the Brockville Gymnastics Academy and the Rotary Park.

~ The ‘face’ of downtown Brockvile will deteriorate withthe addition of more non-picturesque
apartment buildings. We feel we can comfortably state that many people living inthis city are
frustrated with the downtown (rental) apartment buildings we have to date, The apartments
‘along Weter street come to mind, for example. Rental properties should be moved uptown
‘30 that we may preserve as much as possible the historic look of downtown Brockville

~ We believe it to be a matter of time before Leon's will close its doors. Once they decide to
‘lose the location and ifthe building were to be taken down, we are worried that even more
‘apartment buildings wil arise further deteriorating the southwest entry to downtown
Brockville, Also, if condominiums ware to be bull at the current Leon's location, rental
properties next door would drive the prices down,

~ The current location isa public location, and it should stay so. Our proposal is that we
‘should bud a nice park. Cal tthe Trinity Park’ for example. Or leave the area vacant for
better proposals that fit our beautiful (for now) downtown core of this fantastic town.

We hope to be able to attend the hearing on February 6th. Ifnot, we hope that our remarks wil
be added to the discussion somehow.

Sincerely,

Page 70 of 109

HERITAGE BROCKVILLE

Brockville's Municipal Heritage Advisory Committee

‘Brockville City Hall P.O. Box 500, 1 King St. West, Brockville, ON, Canada K6V TAS,

February 8, 2018

Chief Planning Officer,
clo City of Brockville,
Victoria Building,
(One King St. West,
Brockville, ON
K6V7A5

‘To Whom It May Concern;

Subject: Development of 137 George Street & Trinity Church (former)

‘At our regular meeting on Tuesday February 6, 2018 Heritage Brockville reviewed the drawings
‘and description of the proposed development at 137 George Street. Two of our members also
spoke at the Public Meeting earlier in the evening and listened to the reports made by the
developer. As a committee we wish to make the following comments:

‘© The official plan states that a development proposal "shall ensure that a new development
is designed in keeping with the traditional character of the City in a manner that both
reserves their traditional community image and enhances their sense of place within the
City.” This design falls far short of this policy. What we have here are large featureless
‘walls containing relatively small windows. The developer indicated that he needed small
windows in order to have them operable. This explanation does not warrant a poor,
unimagined design. We contrast this proposal with the Wall Street Village apartments
under construction. The windows are larger creating a more liveable space. It is not
difficult to add a larger non-opening window to each unit in addition to the smaller
‘operating ones. To imagine that these buildings enhance a sense of place within the City
and is in keeping with the traditional characteris patently false.

‘© Balconies are non-existent in this design. The developer indicated that he did want people
‘out on their balconies using barbecues. Again we contrast this design with the Wall Street
‘Village apartments where each unit has a balcony. As a minimum, patio doors could be
incorporated inthe design with a metal barrier to prevent egress. There are modestly priced
apartments in Brockville that incorporate this feature.

‘© There is a general lack of visually engaging elements in this proposal. Viewed from King
Street one would see a non-descript wall bousing small windows. There are few, if any,
clements that make this building special to Brockville. As one person indicated at the
‘meeting “there’s a building that I wouldn’t be proud of if were putting it up.” It may be of
interest to note that the previous building, proposed for the property, was exceptionally
‘well designed.

Page 71 of 109

‘The Official Plan indicates that the City “may require, at the City’s sole discretion that
‘proponents submit design guidelines with development applications establishing how the
‘policies of this (Official) Plan have been considered and addressed. Such guidelines may also
be required to address related issues of. architectural treatment.”

Heritage Brockville requests that the City ask the developer to resubmit a more pleasing,
‘visually engaging and liveable design. A design that reflects more of the elements in our
Official Plan. The downtown core deserves something better that these buildings. We, as a
committee, would be agreeable to meet with the developer to discuss revisions.

aul Bullock

Fed Blok

Heritage Brockville
CoFile

Page 72 of 109

SCHEDULE “F” TO REPORT 2018-027-03

Z@NDeERPLON

Your rural land planning experts
January 3, 2018

City of Brockille Planning Department.
1 King Street West

P.O. Box 5000,

Brockville, ON

Kev 7AS

‘To Whom It May Concern:

RE: Zoning By-Law Amendment ~ Revised Planning Report
137 George Street
Lots A& 23, and Partof Lots B & 24
Registered Plan No. 67
City of Brockville

ZanderPlan Inc. has been retained by 1850521 Ontario Limited and 1850522 Ontario Limited, to
prepare and submit a Zoning By-law Amendment Application for the property located at 137,
George Street. The subject property measures approximately 3,483m2 with frontage on Clarissa
Street, George Street and Gilmour Street. The east side of the property currently houses 2
church with the westside of the property containing a gravel parking area. There are very few
‘mature trees or landscaped areas currently on the property. The property slopes down
significantly from east to west as you travel along George Street. The development proposal will
seek to remove the existing church and any structures attached to It and build two (2) new 24
Unit, 3-storey apartment buildings with a centralized parking area. The building proposed on
the east side of the property will include underground parking and an indoor garbage area. The
Zoning By-Law Amendment is being submitted before the ite Plan Application to propose are-
zoning from Residential Ninth Density - Exception 1 (R9 ~ 1) and Mixed Use Downtown
Exception 2 (MD ~2) to Residential Eighth Density - Exception (RB ~X) Zone to permit the two
proposed apartment buildings. Once the new zoning classification isin place, the Site Plan for
the proposal will be submitted. In addition, an Environmental Assessment Report has been
submitted along with a Servicing and Stormwater Management Report.

SUBJECT PROPERTY

‘The subject property is located at 137 George Street, described as Lots A & 23, and Part Lots B
& 24, Registered Plan 67, in the City of Brockulle (See Figure 1) comprised of Parts 1-4 on Plan

Pro. Box 20148 Porth, Ontario KTH SMB ph 615-264-0600 fax 615 204-0000 wir anderen com
Paget

Page 73 of 109

Your rural land planning experts

28R - 13889. The property measures approximately 3,483m2 in size with 30.5 metres of
frontage on Carissa Street, 118.3 metres of frontage on George Street and 31.2m of frontage
on Gilmour Street. An existing stone church with an attached parish hall is located on the east
side of the property fronting onto Clarissa Street. A gravel parking area with access off of
George Street is located on the westside of the property. Hydro poles and overhead wires are
located on the south side of George Street and the east side of Gilmour Street abutting the
property. A pedestrian sidewalk is located along Clarissa Street abutting the property which
extends part ofthe way down George Street, ending at the side wall of the attached parish hall
near the entrance to the gravel parking area. The property includes two parcels which were
Previously severed in 2011. As the proposal includes the entire site, a Planning Act application
willbe required to merge the parcels back together.

Figure 4~ Aerial View of 127 George Street

‘The subject property is located within the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area with 2
variety of different land uses located in the surrounding neighbourhood. Lands to the north are
mainly lower density single or semi-detached dwellings with a few examples of higher density
development. Lands to the east consist of higher density residential apartments with some
‘commercial uses fronting onto King Street West. Lands to the south include Leon's Furniture
and its large asphalt parking area, as well as the Brockville Gymnastics Academy, Lands to the
west consist of some residential uses of varying density and Rotary Park. The Brock Trail is
located south of the property traveling in an east to west direction. The proposed apartment
buildings would be suitable given the existing multi-residential development already existing to

P.O. Box 20148 Perth, Ontario KTH SW6 ph, 615-254-0600 fax 813-264-0000 wit anderpan com
Page2

Page 74 of 109

Z@NDERPLON

Your rural land planning experts

‘the east and could be easily serviced within walking distance by @ number of commercial uses
along King Street West

DEVELOPMENT PROPOSAL

‘The development proposal will seek to re-zone the subject property in order to construct two
(2) three storey, 24 unit apartment buildings, one at either end of the site, with a central
parking area. The buildings wil front onto Clarissa Street and Gilmour Street respectively with
access to a common parking area coming off of George Street. The east building wil include 19
spaces of underground parking with two stalls devoted to barrier-free parking. Access to the
underground will come via the central parking area. Garbage will lso be located in the
Lnderground of the east building. The west building will be situated lower on the property, due
‘to an elevation change on the site, nd will nt include any underground parking. The majority
of the central parking lot, including the two barrier-free spaces, will provide the parking
requirement forthe west building. Garbage for the westernmost building wil be situated to the
south ofthe building with an access lane for garbage trucks coming off of Gilmour Street.

Upon completion, the site will house 48 residential units with a total of 53 parking spaces,
nineteen of which will be underground and four of which willbe dedicated for barrier-free
parking. The proposed east building will include three (3) one-bedroom units fifteen (15) two-
bedroom units and six (6) three-bedroom units spread evenly overall three storeys. The west
building wil include two (2) one-bedroom units on the main floor, nineteen (19) two-bedroom
nits spread over al three storeys and three (3) three-bedroom with one on the main flaor and
‘wo on the third floor. In total, ofthe 48 units proposed the development will include five (5)
‘one-bedroom units, thirty-four (34) two-bedroom units and nine (9) three-bedroom units. The
Proposed density for the development is 138 units per hectare. This zoning amendment
application is submitted to re-zone the property to Residential Eighth Density Exception (R8-X)
Zone to support the proposal.

CITY OF BROCKVILLE ZONING BY-LAW No. 050-2014

‘The subject property is currently zoned Mixed Use Downtown - Exception 2 (MD-2) and
Residential Ninth Density ~ Exception 1 (R9-1) on the City of Brockville Zoning By-Law Schedule
‘A~Map 1 (See Figure 2). The Mixed Use Downtown Zone falls on the eastside ofthe property
‘comprising the old church while the Residential Ninth Density Zone falls on the west side
‘comprising the attached parish hall and gravel parking area. The RS-1 Zone was originally
established on the property to permit a multi-storey high density apartment dwelling which

‘Flor box 20145 Perth, Ontano KTH SMG ph 613-264-0600 fax 615254 9609 wavy zanderplen comm
Pages

Page 75 of 109

Z@NDERPLON

Your rural land planning experts

‘obtained approvals but was never constructed. The entire property falls within the Downtown
‘and Central Waterfront Area as seen on Schedule B to the Zoning By-Law (See Figure 3).

gure 2 Cly of Brochlle Zoning By-Law 050-2014 Schedule A-Map

Lene
=
ma eet tees nae
‘samedi tS Soe
SS homens Ber
eae ae Boe
Seucmaiocahiciic shea ied
eae SLT
nent chee oom)

Figure 3 ~ Cy of Brochille Zoning By-Law 050-2014 Schedule
‘Special Provision: forthe Downtown and Central Waterfront Ares

‘The Zoning By-Law Amendment proposes to rezone the property from Mixed Use Downtown -
Exception 2 (MD-2) and Residential Ninth Density ~ Exception 1 (R9-1) to a new Residential
Eighth Density — Exception (RE-X) zone to accommodate the development proposal. Section 5.0
of the Zoning By-Law provides polices and provisions for Residential Zones Identifying
apartments and group home dwellings as the permitted uses in the R& Zone. Tables 5.2a) to
5.2¢) in the zoning by-law provide residential lat and building requirements, Apartment
dwellings in the R8 zone require the following

FO. Box 20145 Perth, Ontario KTH SMG ph 615-264-6000 fax: 613-264-0600 win zanderpian com
Pages

Page 76 of 109

Z@NDeERPLON

Your rural land planning experts

‘Table 5.2(c): Lot and Building Requirements for Residential - Multiple Zones
Requirement Use RB Zone
Tot Frontage (rin) ‘Apartment 25.0
Lot Area (min) ‘Apartment 7,000.02
[Front Yard (mia) ‘Apartment 8.0m
Exterior Side Yard (rin) ‘Apartment 6.0m
Interior Side Vard (min) ‘Apartment 5.0m.
Rear Yard (min) ‘Apartment 7.5m
Lot Depth (in) ‘Apartment 25.0
Landscaped Open Space ‘Apartment 30%
Height (max) ‘Apartment | 185m
Density (max) ‘Apartment 160 units /ha

‘The subject property as it sits measures 3,483.3m2 in ste with 180,0m of combined frontage
(on 3 roads. The property has a vertical depth of 30.5 metres with a horizontal depth averaging.
4114.3 metres, all well Beyond the minimums required, including for two buildings on the site.
With regards to yard setbacks and other provisions, the development proposal requires some
‘exceptions in order to permit the proposed development.

As part of the proposal, hoth the frontage on Clarissa and Gilmour Streets will be considered
the front yards, with George Street being an exterior side yard and the south lot line abutting
the Leon’s Furniture being considered an interior side. The proposed front yard setbacks to
Clarissa Street and Gilmour Street are 1.0m and 2.5m respectively. The east building includes an
exterior side yard of 4.5m with the west building proposing 1.0m. The interior side yard is
proposed at 4.6m for the east building and 6.7m for the west building. Although exceptions will
bee required to accommodate the proposal, several yard reductions have already been
contemplated for this site and are reflected under the current R9-1 exception zone:

Provisions for the R9-1 Zone
‘Minimum Lot Area 2215.0 m2
Minimum Lot Frontage 310m
‘Minimum Lot Depth 680m
‘Minimum Front Yard Setback Sm
‘Minimum Exterior Side Yard Setback 00m
‘Minimum Interior Side Yard Setback 0.0m
‘Minimum Rear Yard Setback 15m

17.0 m subject to the bonus provisions |

Maximum Building Height sai RST F |

P.O. Box 20148 Porth, Ontario KTH GMB ph 613-254-0500 Tax 613-264-0600 wit angerpan com
Pages

Page 77 of 109

Your rural land planning experts
Section 6.0 of the Zoning By-Law provides policies and provisions for Commercial and Mixed
Use Zones. The eastside of the property is zoned Mixed Use Downtown - Exception 2 (MD-2)
Which permits a number of different uses on the property. This portion will also be re-zoned
Residential Eighth Density ~ Exception as part ofthe zoning amendment application. While the
‘exceptions created to support the previous proposal are of interes, the provisions of Section
6.0 and the permitted uses ofthe MD-2 zone do nat apply to this development proposal

The zoning table for the proposed development is depicted below showing the current
requirements of the R8, R9-1 and MD-2 zones with the yard and setback provisions for the
‘proposed development shown in the RS-X column,

Tong aor 7 ag Se
ran ed nd Downy pn 0) fe Nt Oey gon 0)
‘atone
tonarodion | ,MOazon | o.z0m | panirewens | ropnednax
s seauirem (Apartment)

Ea naa)
catronege tn) | 300m 310m 2am | Em
Tati in) | —EaaoOME | Egon? —| “p6oGe | — sa

Ti (ca
Tent inin) | tntng | 185m aim | sama
Ts (i) bang Son Son iene
ear Yo (an) —[ Ot ta in wk
Tarbes —|-— We <n 20 305
Tacos fang | — 8 ima ra aa
Uandicaped open 1 a0 30% 30% 305%
cro

ro Ta
Height (max) Es Bonus Provisions) 1850) 14.2m (Peak)
Guba
No. of Storeys (max) NIA Bonus Provisions) N/A 3
Wo otuntsime) | wa _| gett Twa a
Tarng neon |r and”| for andar naar and} — Bara
rogue | yar | ‘asyee
San 5.329 Tne nas ova prit pio 37m ih anna feral
mmf eden ata sic ae oo itedins

0. Box 20148 Perth, Ontario K7H SMS ph. 815-264-0000 fx 673-204-6000 win zandeman com
Pages

Page 78 of 109

Z@NDERPLON

Your rural land planning experts

Given that the subject property has already been contemplated for high density residential
development, with several yard exceptions and bonus provisions already permitted, the
development proposal and re-zoning ofthe property to permit two apartment dwellings would
bbe suitable and appropriate. The current property is large enough in terms of frontage and area
to accommodate two apartment buildings. The R9-1 zone in place already permits a 0 metre
exterior side yard, which Is required as part ofthis proposal to accommodate the proposed
parking area. The proposed zoning by-law amendment from Mixed Use Downtown - Exception
2 (MD-2) and Residential Ninth Density ~ Exception 1 (R9-1) to Residential Eighth Density —
Exception (RB-X) would be consistent with the City of Brockulle Zoning By-Law 050-2014.

CITY OF BROCKVILLE OFFICIAL PLAN

The subject property is designated Downtown & Central Waterfront Area on the City of
Brockville Official Plan Schedule 1 (See Figure 4) with Schedule 2 showing the permitted
number of storeys on the west half ofthe site being 11 (See Figure 5). There are no heritage
features or constraints identified forthe property on any Official Plan Schedules.

Figure 4 Excerpt of Offical Plan Schedule 2 Figure 5~ Excerpt of Oficial Pan Schedule 2

Section 4.2 of the City’s Official Plan sets forth policies and provisions for the Downtown &
Central Waterfront Area. Section 4.2.1 states “this area represents the broadest diversity of
land uses... achieving the desired mix of uses shall be achieved by encouraging intensification
and the redevelopment of existing vacant and underutilized sits.” The subject property is an
‘example of an underutilized site containing an old church and unused gravel parking area,
Intensification and redevelopment of the site with two new 24 unit apartment dwellings would
significantly increase residential density of the area in proximity to the various uses and
‘amenities located in the Downtown & Central Waterfront Area. Apartment buildings are a
permitted use inthis designation per section 4.2.2.2 ofthe Official Pan.

P.O. Box 20148 Porth, Ontario KTH GMB ph 613-254-9600 fax 613-264 O500 wit TanGerBan com

Pege7

Z@NDERPLON,

Your rural land planning experts

Page 79 of 109

Section 42.3 of the Official Plan sets forth Land Use & Bullt Form Policies within the Downtown
& Central Waterfront Area. In total, there are 24 provisions listed with several subsections
‘throughout. Due to the length of Section 4.2.3, only thase provisions directly relating to the
subject property and / or proposed development willbe listed and addressed with regards to

‘theie conformity with the Official Plan. Those provisions are as follows:

4. New development in the Downtown and Centro! Waterfront Areo shall ensure that
‘proper building frontage Is maintained and that the proposed uses do not negatively
Impact the planned function of the area.

2 New development shall be consistent with the City’s opproved Downtown and
‘Waterfront Master Plan and Urban Design Strategy.

3. The height and massing of the building shall have regard to the height and massing of
the buildings on any adjacent property ond may be subject to addtional setbacks, height
restrictions, or landscaping to provide an appropriate transition.

4. For residential units, the development sholl be adequately serviced by parks and schoo!
facilites.

‘5. All required parking shall be provided on the site or Ina shared facility having adequate
‘capacity within 150 metres of the subject lands. Appropriate parking standards for the
Downtown and Central Waterfront shall be established in the Zoning By-low.

6. For developments incorporating small-scale apartments, block townhouse dwellings and
similar medium profile residential buildings, on-site recreational facilites or amenities
‘such as private open space or playground equipment may be required.

7. For developments with a potential to impact the traffic patterns of the area, a report
shall be provided by the proponent identifying the adequacy of the road network to
‘accommodate the expected traffic flows, n association with policies in Section 5.2.1.

& Development along Main Streets, Secondary Main Streets, and Water Street as identified
(on Schedule 2, shall reinforce the linkages to the waterfront and preserve and enhance
Views, contribute to pedestrian animation at the ground floor level, and provide
streetscape elements that improve look, feel, and vibrancy of the Main and Secondary
‘Streets and Water Street.

111. Within transitional areas of the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area identified on
‘Schedule 2, the height, density ond massing ofthe development shall be compatible with
the adjacent low density residential uses through the use of appropriate transitions

P10. Box 20148 Perth, Ontario KTH SM6 pt 613-254-9600 fax 613-264 O50 Witt Zander COM

Pages

Page 80 of 109

Z@NDERPLON

Your rural land planning experts
Including but not limited to lower bulding heights, addtional setbacks ond buffers,
building treatments, locaton of parking, ond landscaping.

412. The height, massing, orientation and layout of buildings shal promote the creation of @
pedestrian scaled environment end reinforce the character ofthe Main and Secondory
Streets ond Water Street.

415. For building frontages on George Street (west of Buell Street), Pine Street (east of
Gorden street) and James Street, a minimum of 50% of the frontage shall be occupied by
‘continuous bullding frontage, within @ building setback zone from the public right-of-
way as determined in the Zoning By-law, to recognize the character of these streets and
their transition to stable neighbourhoods outside the Downtown and Central Waterfront
Area.

117. Buildings heights within Skyline Development Areas and Waterfront Development Areas
(of the Downtown and Centro! Waterfront Area shall be in accordance with the heights
Identified on Schedule 2 and subject to the criteria outlined below. Any development
proposed greater than three storeys but less than or equal to five storeys shall only be
permitted subject to a site-specific amendment to the Zoning By-law and satisfying the
{following criteria to ensure the building height is compatible with neighbouring land uses
‘and that the development provides a suitable transition with adjacent stable residential
neighbourhoods:

Signature Architecture ~ Signature architecture above three storeys shall be
required to ensure a high level of architectural treatment and design. Signature
‘architecture may consist of enhanced building articulation through the use of
distinguishable architectural elements, including cornices and mouldings,
‘materials, and colours consistent with the prominent architecture within the
Downtown and Central Waterfront Area

fi. Angular Plane ~ An angular plane consistent with the Downtown and Waterfront
‘Master Plan and Urban Design Strategy shall be required. Figure 3.1 provides an
example of an angular plane.

|i Downtown and Waterfront Master Plan and Urban Design Strategy (DWMPUDS)
Development shall be consistent with the City’s approved DWMPUDS.

419. A minimum ground floor height shall be required for new development with frontage on
‘Main Streets, Woter Street and Secondary Streets to ensure a consistent ground floor
height. Where ground floor residential uses shall be permitted, o minimum ground floor
height of 4.5 metres shall be required to accommodate a ground floor that may be
converted to commercial/rtall or office uses. The ground floor shall provide for clearly

P.O. Box 20148 Perth, Ontario KTH SMB pt 61264-9500 fax 61S 264 9600 Witt anderen com

Pageo

Page 81 of 109

Z@NDeRPLON

Your rural land planning experts

visible accesible entrances, extensive window openings to accommodate the dsplay of
‘g00ds/oroduets, higher urban design ond enhanced building articulation to provide
visual interest atthe treet.

20. The City shall implement the urban design policies of this Plan through the provisions of
the Zoning By-law. The City may require certain design characteristics and/or tools such

‘= Floor Space index or other measures of density;
+ Specific materiols and colours for building fogodes;
‘Locations of windows and doors;
Lond uses at grade:
+ Continuous/intermittent frontage; and
Angular planes.

22.A consistent building height of two to three storeys shall be provided at the street edge
to mointoin the continuity of the street and consistent roof lines, and ensure that
buildings are presented at o pedestrian scale.

‘The subject property has frontage on three streets with well over the minimum required
frontage for apartment buildings. All uses and parking willbe located entirely on-site and will
not disrupt the current function of the area. Height ofthe buildings is proposed at 3 storeys,
only slightly higher than many of the single and semi-detached houses in the neighbourhood
‘and shorter than the existing church or higher density uses located to the east. The property is
located within 5 minutes of a school, with Rotary Park abutting the property on the other side
(of Gilmour Street. Complete with a splash pad, outdoor hockey rink, skate park, basketball
court and washrooms Rotary Park offers numerous recreational amenities. The Brock Tall also
connects to Rotary Park traveling in various directions and providing several linkages to other
parts of Brochille for future residents ofthe subject property. Parking will be provided entirely
‘on-site within a central parking area and within an underground parking level whichis proposed
Under the apartment falling on the eastside ofthe ste.

Invadeition tothe Land Use & Built Form Policies of Section 4.2.3 of the Official Plan, Section 3.4
of the OP addresses Revitalizing Our City with Urban Design policies found under Section 3.4.1.
The policies relate to the built form and physical design of communities within the City. The
Policies of Section 3.4.1 read as follows:

1. The City shall seek to maintain and improve the physical design characteristics of the
Urban Area inthe context of new and existing development by ensuring consistency with
‘Fro. Box 20148 Perth, Ontario KTH WE ph, 615-264-0500 fax 613-254-9500 wan zanderpian corn
Page 10

Page 82 of 109

Z@NDeRPLON

Your rural land planning experts

the Downtown and Waterfront Master Plan and Urban Design Strategy, and stressing
excellence in architecture, urban design and built form.

2. Through the review of development applications, including plons of subdivision, site
plans and other development proposols, the City:
shall ensure that new development is designed in keeping with the traditional
Character ofthe City in a manner that both preserves thelr traditional community
JIimage and enhances their sense of place within the City:
fi, shall promote efficient and cost-effective development design patterns that
‘minimize land consumption while providing for sofe and efficient municipal
services.
1 shall promote the improvement of the physical character, appearance and safety
of streetscapes, cvie spaces, and parks;
‘iv. _ shall encourage tree retention or tree planting and replocement;
¥. shail encourage design that considers, and wherever possible continues, existing
‘nd traditional street patterns and neighbourhood structure; and
Vi. may require, at the City’s sole discretion, that proponents submit design
‘uidelins with development applications establishing how the polices ofthis Plan
‘have been considered and addressed. Such guidelines may also be required to
‘adress related issues of residential streetscaping, landscaping, setbacks, signage,
‘garage placement, and architectural treatment.

13. Any development proposed greater than three storeys but less thon or equal to five
storeys shall aly be permitted subject toa site-specific amendment to the Zoning By-law
‘and satisfying the following criteria to ensure the building height is compatible with
‘neighbouring land uses and that the development provides a suitable transition with
‘adjacent stable residential neighbourhoods:

1. Signature Architecture ~ Signature architecture shal be required to ensure a high

level of architectural treatment and design. Signature architecture may consist of
screening or appropriate design of roof mounted equipment, enhanced building
‘articulation through the use of distinguishable architectural elements, including
cornices and mouldings, material, and colours consistent with the prominent
architecture within the immediote area.
“Angular Plane ~ A 45 degree angular plane, as illustrated in Figure 3.1, shall be
used to regulate the height of tll buildings and ensure they are stepped back
from the street to ensure on appropriate pedestrian scole and from stable
residential lots to ensure there ore no adverse impacts on the adjacent
neighbourhoods.

‘FlO ox 20148 Perth, Ontario KTH SMS ph 8152648000 fx 612649509 wine zanderaIancom

Poge tt

Page 83 of 109

Z@NDERPLON

Your rural land planning experts

li Downtown Waterfront Master Plan and Urban Design Strategy (OWMPUDS) —
Development shall be consistent with the City’s approved DWMPUDS.

4. Any development proposal in excess of five storeys shall nly be permitted subject to @
site specie amendment to ths Plan and satisfying certain eteria to ensure the building
height is compatible with neighbouring land uses and that the development provides 0
suitable transition with adjacent stobe residential neighbourhoods. The enteria for any
building proposed in excess of five storeys shall include the following:

Signature Architecture ~ Signature architecture above three storeys shall be
required to ensure 0 high level of architecture! treatment and design. Signature
architecture moy consist of screening or appropriate design of roof mounted
equipment, enhanced building articulation through the use of distinguishable
architecturl elements, including comes ond mouldings, materials, and colours
consistent wth the prominent architecture within the immediate oreo.

4 Angular Plane - A 45 degree angular plane, as ilustroted in Figure 3.1, shal be
used to regulate the height of tal ulldings and ensure they are stepped back
from the street to ensure an appropriate pedestrian scole and from stable
residential lots to ensure there are no adverse impacts on the adjacent
neighbourhoods

lik Borusing Provisions ~ In exchange for an increase in height, the bonusing
provisions of Section 37 of the Planning Act shal be utilized in exchange for
‘2dditional community benefits, which may include improvements to the adjacent
public realm, public ot, ond park and open space Improvements

iv. Toll Builing Guidelines ~ Development proposed in the Skyline Development
‘Areas or over five storeys inthe Cy sholl be consistent with the Pon's urban
design policies which outline additional design guidelines for tall buildings that
relate to mossing, views and vistas, point block development standards that
mitigate shadow overlays, view obstructions ond addtional step back
requirements for towers above three storeys, building placement, ond
architecture.

1% Downtown and Waterfront Mester Plan and Urban Design Strategy (DWMPUDS)
~ Development shall be consistent with the City’s approved DWMPUDS.

‘5. A minimum ground floor height shall be required for new development with frontage on
Main Streets, Water Street and Secondary Streets or in a Mixed-use ond Commercial
‘Area to ensure a consistent ground floor height. Where ground floor residential uses
shall be permitted, a minimum ground floor height of 4.5 metres shall be required to
‘accommodate a ground floor that may be converted to commercial/rtail or office uses.

0. Box 20148 Perth, Ontario KTH SMB ph 618-264-6600 fax: 613-264-0600 win zanderoian com
Page 12

Page 84 of 109

Z@NDERPLON,

Your rural land planning experts
‘The ground floor shail provide for clearly visible/accessible entrances, extensive window
openings to accommodate the display of goods/preducts, higher urban design ond
enhanced building articulation to provide sual interes atthe street.

6. The City shall implement the urban design policies ofthis Plan through the provisions of
the Zoning By-law. The City may require certain design choracterstcs and/or tools such
‘+ Floor Space Index or other measures of density;
© Specifi materials and colours for building facades;
‘Locations of windows and doors;
Land uses at grade:
* Continuous/intermittent frontage; and
‘© Angular planes.

7. Measures shall be taken to ensure that the permitted uses address compatibility with
cdjacent land uses. Adequate separation buffering or screening shall be provided
‘between any uses where land use conflicts might be expected, such as the provision of
‘grass strips and appropriate planting of tees and shrubs, berms or fence screening, and
other means as appropriate. Modifications to building orientation may also represent
‘appropriate buffering measures.

8 Wherever possible, new development shall be oriented toward streets or parks.
Development design that establishes reverse lotting on City roads or requires features
‘such a5 noise attenuation or privacy fencing, in accordance with Section 3.7.2, shall
generally not be permitted. However, reverseslotting may be permitted along Collector
Roads and Arterial Roads, at the discretion of the City and subject to the provision of
uniform noise attenuation or privacy fencing and a suitable maintenance program to the
satisfaction of the City, in accordance with Section 3.7.2

9. The City shall require that infil developments be compatibly scaled and designed to
‘enhance the character of the area,

410. Streetscaping that reflects the intended character of the City shall be encouraged. In
particular, contextually appropriate streetscaping and public realm features shall be
required in the Downtown ond Central Waterfront Area, ond the Mixed Use and
Commercial Nodes, at the cost of the proponent

41. The City, in consultation with a development proponent(s), shall define a style of street
{furnishing thot should include shared and accessible bicycle racks, garbage and recycling
receptacles, benches and street lamps to be used in a new development. The City may

P10. Box 20148 Porth, Ontario KTH SMG ph 615-254-0600 fax: 613-264-0600 Witt ZandeTsIon com
Page 13

Page 85 of 109

Z@NDERPLON

Your rural land planning experts
consult, 0s appropriate, the Brockville Municipal Accessibility Advisory Committee
{BMAAC), the DBIA, and/or the Heritage Brockville Committee.

12. A high quality of architecture and site design for institutional uses such as schools, places
of worship, community centres, libraries and other public service buildings shall be
encouraged.

13.4 high quality of park and open space design shal be strongly encouraged. The land for
parkland dedication shall be carefully selected to faclltat its use asa central focal point
{for new or exsting neighbourhoods

14, Public art in the City shall generally be encouraged to incorporate themes supporting
and promoting local history, civic pride, creativity, businesses and technology. The
provision of public art in the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area shall be
encouraged, particularly with larger development proposals. The City may consider
‘granting increases in height or density for @ porticular development proposal in
‘exchange for the provision of public art, in accordance with Section 6.4.3

15. The Cty shall promote the integration and accessibility of community uses including
‘schools, municipal facilites, institutional uses, parks and open spaces and recreational
Uses through pedestrian, cycling and trail linkages. The City shall require the provision of
certain pedestrian, cycling and trail linkages through the development approvals
process, in accordance with the policies ofthis Plan

416. The City may undertake the preparation of master plans and urban design strategies to
‘achieve the policies ofthis Section for all or parts of the City, particularly the Mixed Use
‘and Commercial Nodes, and ony additional studies that would complement the
Downtown and Waterfront Master Plan and Urban Design Strategy (DWMPUDS). From
time to time, the DWMPUDS should be reviewed and updated.

417. The City shall encourage development design thot considers the principles of Crime
Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED). Specifically, the City shall encourage
proponents of new development to situate buildings on lots to maximize natural
surveillance and to use appropriate lighting to deter crime.

418, The City shall require municipal addressing to be clearly displayed in order to facilitate
response by emergency services.

19. The Clty shall consider locating utilities within the public rights-of-way as well as on
private property Utilities shall be clustered or grouped where possible to minimize visual
impact. The City encourages utility providers to consider innovative methods of
Containing utility services on, or within streetscape features such as gateways, lamp

‘Fro. Box 20146 Perth, Ontario KTH SMG ph, 615-264-0600 fax 613-264 0600 wat zandelan com
Page 14

Page 86 of 109

Z@NDERPLON,

Your rural land planning experts
‘posts, transit shelters, when determining appropriate locations for large utility
equipment and utility cluster sites.
20. The Cty shall review the design and layout of parking areas in accordance with the
polices ofthis Plan.

21. The City may establish an Architectural and Urban Design Review Committee, or any
‘other Committee, to assist In reviewing studies or components of development
‘opplications. The City may also require a peer review, atthe cost of the proponent, of
‘ny studies submitted a part of the review of development applications.

‘The development proposal is for two (2) apartment buildings consisting of three storeys each,
as such the policies of Section 3.4.13 and 3.4.1.4 for development exceeding three storeys and
five storeys respectively do not apply. The proposal is seeking a residential infill development
within the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area, described in Section 4.2.1 as having the
broadest diversity of land uses in the City. Abutting residential uses are either multi-storey
single dwellings or apartments which would make the proposal compatible in terms of
‘surrounding land uses. Development is oriented toward Gilmour and Clarissa Streets as well as
Rotary Park pursuant to Section 4.3.1.8. The proposed infil is suitable with surrounding uses
‘and will enhance the character of the area compared to the existing gravel parking area and
unused church occupying the property. Site plan details relating to furnishings, bike racks,
garbage, ete. have been shown conceptually on the Zoning sketch and will be dealt with in
greater detall at the Site Plan stage. Accessiblity has been considered through the inclusion of
barrier-free dwelling units and ample barrier-free parking designed per the Accessibilty for
‘Ontarians with Disablties Act (AODA). The proposal complies with the Brockville Downtown
‘and Waterfront Master Plan and Urban Design Strategy (WMPUDS) which is addressed in the
next section of this report. Therefore, the proposal complies with the urban design polices of
Section 3.4.1 of the Official Plan

‘The subject property is identified as being within a Transitional Area in the City’s Downtown &
Central Waterfront Area. In the past, @ Zoning Amendment was completed permitting up to 11
storeys on the site, This proposal will see a significantly scaled down project of two, (2) three
storey buildings that will be more compatible with the existing heights and densities of
development in the surrounding neighbourhood. Though the site’s longest frontage is on
George Street, the property also fronts onto Clarissa Street and Gilmour Street. The proposed
pedestrian entrances to the respective buildings will come via these frontages while vehicle
access to the parking area will come off of George Street. As previously stated, Schedule 2 to
the Official Plan permits up to 11 storeys on the R9-1 portion, but only 3 storeys are proposed.

"Flos Box 20148 Perth, Ontario KTH SMB ph, 815-264-0600 fax: 613-264-6000 wit zanderman com
Page 15

Page 87 of 109

Z@NDERPLONM

Your rural land planning experts

The three storeys will continue tothe street edge to ensure continuity with surrounding roof
tines. Subject tothe completion of any required stuses, the subject property conforms with the
policies of Section 4.23 ofthe Offi Pan

BROCKVILLE DOWNTOWN & WATERFRONT MASTER PLAN & URBAN DESIGN STRATEGY

‘The City's Downtown & Waterfront Master Plan & Urban Design Strategy was adopted by
Council In December of 2009 to recommend strategies and guidelines relating to the
Downtown and Central Waterfront Area and to update to the existing Waterfront Master Plan,
1991. The Downtown and Waterfront Master Plan encompasses the City's downtown, the
central waterfront and the St. Lawrence Parks and Islands (See Figure 6). The subject property
{alls on the western boundary of the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area.

Figure 6~Locition of Subject Property within
The Downtown & Cental Waterfront Area

Section 2.1 of the Downtown & Waterfront Master Plan & Urban Design Strategy sets forth the
goals and objectives ofthe Plan. Section 2.1.2 ~ Sustainable Downtown & Waterfront Goals lists
the following goals:

‘© To balance the use ofthe Cty’s Islands.

0. Box 20145 Perth, Ontario KTH SMG ph. 618-264-6000 fax: 613-264-0609 Wil ZandeTEIanCoM

Page 18

Page 88 of 109

Z@NDERPLONM

Your rural land planning experts
+ Torevitolze the downtown ora

‘+ To protect and enhance the waterfront as an active and publily accessible place, and to
promote the redevelopment and future uses along the waterfront, while maintaining the
‘existing bult character.

‘+ To ensure that new development and redevelopment in the DCWA is subject to
‘enhanced control/protection in order to maintain the unique built heritage/architectural
identity ofthe area.

‘+ To require that oll new development has considered environmental impacts and is
subject to sustainable and energy efficient development and design standards.

‘+ To coordinate pedestrian, cyclist and motor vehicle traffic and circulation to and within
the downtown and waterfront areas in order to ensure accessibility and to promote the
viobity of these areas.

‘© To strengthen the role of the City’s downtown area os @ multifunctional, economic
centre, serving the Immediate area as well asthe greater region.

‘© To preserve and enhance the unique character and experience of the downtown area
‘and to ensure that It remains vibrant ond attractive to residents and visitors alike, for its
culture, shopping, and attractions.

‘© To grow and promote the City’s tourism industry, amenities, and events, with a focus on
the downtown and waterfront areas.

‘+ To develop incentive programs to ensure participation by the private sector in business
development, investment, and downtown revitalization

‘The proposed development does not affect any ofthe Citys islands nor isthe property located
along the waterfront area. The proposal will conform to the Land Use and Bult Form policies of
Section 4.2.3 of the Official Plan maintaining the character of the surrounding neighbourhood,
Environmental impacts have been considered for the development with a Grading and Drainage
esign completed for the proposal to minimize off-site impacts. Lands designated Open Space
‘and Environmental Protection are located to the west but are separated from the property by
Rotary Park. Residents of the proposed buildings will have direct access to the Brock Trail which
Provides access to the waterfront parks and several other areas ofthe Cit. The introduction of
48 apartment dwelling units will significantly increase the population of the Downtown and
‘Waterfront Area in proximity to various services and amenities provided within the Downtown.
Given the property location on the border of the Downtown and Waterfront Area, the
evelopment will have little to no impact on the waterfront itself but will serve to increase

0. Box 20148 Porth, Ontario KTH SMe ph 613-254-9600 fax 613-264-0800 wit ZanGerBIn com
Page 17

Page 89 of 109

Z@NDERPLON

Your rural land planning experts
density by e-developing an existing underutilized property and enhancing the built form of the
area through the development of vacant parking lot lands. Bult heritage ofthe area will nt be
affected by the development proposal

The Downtown & Waterfront Master Plan & Urban Design Strategy further aims at creating a
vibrant, healthy, liveable and sustainable community through the use of several urban design
principles. These principles are found under Section 4.0:

Hdentity - Create a unique identity and enhanced sense of ploce through all public
realm measures by enhancing community character, establishing
distinctive areas and streets (theming), continuity in the extension of the
City's urban fabric, and development of a unique skyline while
‘maintaining and enhancing important views.

Connectivity- __Re-establish the relationship of the City to the waterfront ond facilitate
Improved connectivity and accessibility between the downtown and
central woterfront.

Heritage - Preserve and enhance the City’s rich architectural and community
heritage and character.

Permeability - Improve the network of public spaces, tras and access to the waterfront
‘by minimizing physical barriers to movement and encouraging walkabilty

Diversity - Encourage places with @ good range and mix of land uses that are easily
‘adoptable.

Pedestrian Priority - Minimize conflicts between pedestrians, cyclists and vehicles by giving
priority to pedestrians and cyclist in appropriate locations

Continuity - Provide places where public and private spaces are easly distinguished
while providing continuity and connectivity

Legibitty - Provide places that are easy to navigate and guide people to key
locations, by emphasizing points of reference, landmarks, heritage
buildings, etc.

Quality - Provide attractive and successful public spaces that incorporate sensitive

lighting, signage, materials and furnishings, and integrate public at

‘Sustainability Provide places which promote the conservation of natural resources, are
{fiscally responsible and encourage social diversity and interaction.

PLO. Box 20148 Path, Ontario KTH SMG ph 615-254-0600 fax 613-264-0600 wit ZandeTEIancoM
Page 18


Page 90 of 109

Your rural land planning experts
Views - Preserve and enhance important focal points, views and vistas of the
waterfront.

‘The subject property currently houses an old church with the west sie of the property used as
‘a gravel parking area. The church itself has become unused and surplus to the City’s needs in
the last few years and its location within the Downtown and Central Waterfront is not ideal.
Furthermore, the existence of a gravel parking area which is rarely used or exploited to its
potential does not create any sense of identity for the property in the context of the overall
neighbourhood. Houses on the north side of George Street looking south have no view of the
‘waterfront instead left with views of only a parking lot and the rear of a commercial building.
The site currently does litle to contribute to a vibrant, healthy, liveable and sustainable
‘community

‘The re-development of the subject lands at 137 George Street would see the removal of the
‘church and the construction of two (2) 24 unit apartment bulidings. While part of the site will
still be used for parking, the introduction of two new residential buildings will help give the site
Identity and purpose once again and improve views for surrounding residences. Connectivity to
the Downtown and Central Waterfront will be maintained by increasing permeability of the site
‘and encouraging walkabilty through the extensive trall systems found close to the property.
Diversity in land use will be achieved by introducing new higher density residential
‘development In an area predominated by single houses and mixed-use developments. Having
‘one access to the site with underground parking access coming from within the main parking
‘area will promote pedestrian priority by focusing traffic movement within the property
boundary and not having several access points throughout the site where pedestrian and
vehicle interactions can occur. The introduction of the apartment buildings will improve the
sustainability of not only the property but the entire surrounding area by increasing density
within the Downtown and Central Waterfront while increasing opportunity and demand for
local businesses.

‘Overall, the proposed development meets the goals of Section 2.1.2 and conforms to the urban
‘design principles of Section 4.0 of the Downtown & Waterfront Master Plan & Urban Design
Strategy.

PROVINCIAL POLICY STATEMENT (PPS) 2014

The Provincial Policy Statement (PPS, 2014}, Issued under the authority of Section 3 of the

Planning Act, provides policy direction on matters of Provincial interest related to land use

planning and development, and provides for appropriate development while protecting

"Fro Box 20146 Perth, Ontario KTH SNE ph. 615-264-0000 lax 619-254-0000 witw zanderslan com
Page 18

Page 91 of 109

Z@NDERPLON

Your rural land planning experts
resources of Provincial interest. A number of polices should be considered with regard to the
proposed development.
Section 1.0 of the Provincial Policy Statement sets forth policies for Building Strong Healthy
Communities. Section 1.1 outlines Managing and Directing Land Use to Achieve Efficient and
Resilient Development and Land Use Patterns, with Section 1.1.1 stating healthy, liveable and
safe communities are sustained by:

2) promoting efficient development and land use patterns which sustain the financial well
being of the Province and municipalities over the long term;

1b) accommodating an appropriate range and mix of residential (including second units,
affordable housing and housing for older persons), employment (including industrial and
commercial), institutional (including places of worship, cemeteries and long-term care
homes), recreation, park and open space, and other uses to meet long-term needs;

«)_ voiding development and land use patterns which may cause environmental or public
health and safety concerns;

4) avoiding development and land use patterns that would prevent the efficient expansion
of settlement areas in those areas which are adjacent o cose to settlement areas;

€) promoting costeffective development patterns ond standards to minimize land
‘consumption and servicing costs;

A) Improving accessibility for persons with disabilities and older persons by identifying,
preventing and removing land use barriers which restrict their full participation in
society;

9) ensuring thot necessary infrastructure, electricity generation faciltes and transmission
‘and distribution systems, and public service facilities are or will be avoilable to meet
‘current and projected needs; and

1h) promoting development and land use patterns that conserve biodiversity and consider
the impacts of a changing climate.

‘The proposed development will promote efficent development and land use patterns by
removing the unused church and gravel parking area on site and constructing two (2) new
higher density apartment buildings. The new construction will complement the existing range
cof uss in the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area, described in Section 4.2.1 ofthe Official
Plan as representing the broadest cversty of land uses. While removing the existing church will
decrease the mix and range of uses, the church is currently vacant and unused, therefore it
does not contribute to the range of uses at all within this area. The development would not

Page 20

Page 92 of 109

Z@NDERPLON,

Your rural land planning experts
prohibit settlement area expansion, would minimize land consumption and servicing by utilizing
2 vacant, serviced lot, and would improve accessibility for persons with disabilities by designing
a barrier‘ree development with several barier-ree units induded within the proposed
buldings. Environmental health, publc health and safety and biodiversity will not be affected

by the proposal.

Section 1.1.3 of the PPS outlines policies for Settlement Areas, which include cities, towns,
villages and hamlets. The polices of Section 1.1.3 that pertain to the proposed development

are as follows:

4.1.3.1 Settlement areas shall be the focus of growth and development, and their vitality
‘and regeneration shall be promoted.

1132 Landuse patterns within settlement areas shall be based on:
2) densities and a mix of land uses which:

1
2

6

efficiently use land and resources;
‘re appropriate for, and efficiently use, the infrastructure and
public service facities which are planned or available, and avoid
the need forthe unjustified and/or uneconomical expansion;
‘minimize negotive impacts to air quality and climate change, and
Promote eneray efficiency;

support active transportation;

‘ore transit-supportive, where transit is planned, exists or may be
developed; and

ore freight-supportve; and

) a range of uses and opportunities for intensification and redevelopment in
‘accordance with the criteria in policy 1.1.3.3, where this can be
‘accommodated.

413.3 Planning authorities shall identify appropriate locations and promote
‘opportunities for intensification and redevelopment where this can be
‘accommodated taking into account existing building stock or areas, including
brownfield sites, and the availability of suitable existing or planned infrastructure
‘nd public service cilities required to accommodate projected needs.
Intensification and redevelopment shall be directed in accordance with the
polices of Section 2: Wise Use and Management of Resources and Section 3:
Protecting Public Health ond Safety.

Fro. Box 20148 Perth, Ontario KTH SMe ph. 818-264-0600 fax: 613-204 6000 win zanderpan com

Page 21

Page 98 of 109

Z@NDERPLON,

Your rural land planning experts
11.3.4 Appropriate development standards should be promoted which facilitate
Intensification, redevelopment and compact form, while avoiding or mitigating
‘sks to public health and safety.

‘The subject property is located within the Settlement Area of Brockville with the proposed
development serving to revitalise the property and surrounding neighbourhood. The proposed
high density apartment use will efficiently use land which is otherwise sitting unused currently,
will draw upon current infrastructure and public facies, will not negatively affect air quality or
climate change, will support active transportation on-site and via nearby trail linkages, and will
be transit-supportve. The City of Brockille Transit Map shows the property n close proximity
to the Red Bus line with bus stops located at Perth Street and Church Street, about a block
north of the property, and at King Street West and Gilmour Street, half a block south of the
property. The proposal will ivolve the intensification of the property and the redevelopment
of a brownfield site currently unused within the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area
‘Overall, the proposal wll conform to the Settlement Area polices of Section 1.1.3 ofthe PPS.

Section 1.4 ofthe PPS outlines policies for Housing which are as follows:

141 To provide for an appropriate range and mix of housing types and densities
requited to meet projected requirements of current ond future residents of the
‘regional market areo, planning authorities shall:

@) maintain at all times the ability to accommodate residential growth for
‘minimum of 10 years through residential intensification and redevelopment
‘and, if necessary, lands which are designated and available for residential
development; ond

) maintain at al times where new development isto occur, land with servicing
capacity sufficient to provide at least @ three-year supply of residential units
‘ovallable through lands suitably zoned to faciltate residential intensification
‘and redevelopment, and land in draft approved and registered plons.

443 Planning authorities shall provide for an appropriate range and mix of housing
types and densities to meet projected requirements of current and future
residents of the regional market area by:

9) establishing and implementing minimum torgets for the provision of housing
which is affordable to low and moderate income households. However,
where planning is conducted by an upper-tier municipality, the upper-tier
‘municipality in consultation with the lower-tier municipalities may identify @

‘P.O. Box 20148 Poth, Ontario KTH SMS ph 615-254-0600 fax 615-264 9509 wate zandermian com

Page 22

Page 94 of 109

Z@NDERPLON,

Your rural land planning experts

higher target{s) which shall represent the minimum target(s) for these
lower-ter municipalities;

1b) permitting and faciitating:

1. all forms of housing required to meet the social, health and well-
being requirements of current and future residents, including special
reeds requirements; and

2. all forms of residential intensification, including second units, and
redevelopment in accordance with policy 1.1.3.3;

©) directing the development of new housing towards locations where
‘appropriate levels of infrastructure and public service foilties are or will be
‘ville to support current and projected needs;

<4) promoting densities for new housing which efficiently use land, resources,
infrastructure and public service facilities, and support the use of active
transportation and transit In areas where it exsts or I to be developed; and

@) establishing development standards for residential intensification,
redevelopment and new residential development which minimize the cost of,
‘housing and focitate compact form, while maintaining appropriate levels of
public health and safety.

‘The proposed development will provide 48 residential apartment units at a higher density than
much of the residential development in the neighbourhood which would be affordable for low
‘and moderate income households. The density proposed will use the land more efficiently than
the current church and parking area uses with active transportation supported by the various
sidewalks and trall connections around the property.

Section 1.5 of the Provincial Policy Statement (PPS) 2014 sets forth Public Spaces, Recreation,
Parks Trails and Open Space polices stating healthy, active communities should be promoted
by:

2) planning public streets, spaces and facilities to be sofe, meet the needs of
pedestrians, foster social interaction and facitate active transportation and
community connectivity:

) planning and providing for a full range and equitable distribution of publily-
‘accessible built and natural settings for recreation, including fociities, parklands,
public spaces, open space areas, trails and linkages, and, where practical, water-
based resources;

P.O. Box 20148 Perth, Ontario KTH SMB ph, 618-254-0600 fax: 613-254-0000 win aanderEan com
Page 23

Page 95 of 109

Z@NDERPLON,

Your rural land planning experts
)_ providing opportunities for public access to shorelines; and

) recognizing provincial parks, conservation reserves, and other protected areas, and
‘minimizing negative impacts on these areos.

‘The overall development has been designed to minimize the number of connections to the
open street for vehicles to access the site in order to meet the needs of pedestrians and ensure
their safety. One access off of George Street is proposed with access to underground parking
coming from the central parking area, thus keeping the Clarissa and Gilmour Street frontages
clear of vehicles accessing and egressing the site, save forthe garbage access forthe west side
building. The property is in close proximity to Rotary Park offering several recreational
amenities, park and open spaces, trail linkages all within a short walking distance. The Brock
‘rail which travels through Rotary Park provides linkages in several directions including
Providing access to the waterfront and shoreline areas. The development recognizes the
existence of Environmental Protection areas along portions of the Brock Trall close to the
property and will not negatively impact these features. Overal, the development will provide
future residents with several recreational amenities, parklands, trails and linkages to support
‘active, healthy community life.

Section 1.6 of the Provincial Policy Statement (PPS) 2014 sets forth policies for Infrastructure
and Public Service Facilities, with Sewage, Water and Stormwater policies found under Section
1166. The following policies of Section 1.6.6 pertain tothe proposed development:

1.6.6.1 Planning for sewage and water services shall:

‘) direct and accommodate expected growth or development in o manner that
promotes the efficient use and optimization of existing:
1. municipal sewoge services and municipal water services; and
2. private communal sewoge services and private communal water
services, where municipal sewage services ond municipal woter
services are not available;
'b) ensure thot these systems ore provided in a manner that:

4. can be sustained by the water resources upon which such services
rely;

2. Is feasible, financially viable and complies with all regulatory
requirements; and

3. protects human health and the natural environment;

‘Fro. Box 20148 Perth, Ontario KTH SWE ph, 615-264-0000 fx 619-264-9609 wan zanderpian corn
Page 24

Page 96 of 109

Z@NDERPLON

Your rural land planning experts
©) promote water conservation and water use efclency;

4) Integrate servicing and land use considerations at all stages ofthe planning
process; and

@) be In accordance with the servicing hierarchy outlined through policies
16.6.2, 16.6.3, 166.4 0nd 1.665.

1.6.6.2 Municipal sewage services and municipal water services are the preferred form
of servicing for settlement areas. Intensification and redevelopment within
settlement areas on existing municipal sewage services ond municipal water
services should be promoted, wherever feasible.

4.6.6.7 Planning for stormwater management shall:
9) minimize, or, where possible, prevent increases in contaminant loads;
'b) minimize changes in water bolance and erasion;
©) not increase rsks to human health and safety and property damage:
<d)_ maximize the extent and function of vegetative and pervious surfaces; and

2) promote stormwater management best proctces, including stormwater
‘attenuation and re-use, od low impact development.

‘The property is located within the City of Brockville and is on full municipal sewage and water
services which are preferred within Settlement Areas. The proposed intensification and
redevelopment would occur on these existing services. A grading plan and servicing plan have
been prepared for the development which shows the existing watermain traveling along
George Street with sanitary sewers located along George and Gilmour Streets. A single
‘watermain connection Is proposed off of George Street which will split on-site servicing both
proposed buildings. Similarly, a single sanitary line for sewage will come off of George Street
‘and will split on-site servicing both buildings. With regards to stormwater management 2
stormwater main with a catch basin are proposed on-site which will drain into the existing
storm sewers located along George Street. Retaining walls willbe placed on-site to minimize
health and safety impacts and the potential for property damage. The engineering plans and
reports will be submitted as part of the site pian application.

Section 2.0 of the Provincial Policy Statement (PPS) 2014 deals with the Wise Use and
Management of Resources aimed at protecting natural heritage, water, agriculture, mineral
cultural heritage and archeological resources. The subject property isa lot within the City of
Brockville and does not contain any natural heritage and water resources that would be
P.O. Box 20146 Perth, Ontario KTH SMG ph 615-264-6600 fax: 613-264-0808 wt zandersan com

Page 25


Page 97 of 109

Z@NDeRPLOM

Your rural land planning experts

affected by development. There are no agricultural areas or designations on or in proximity to
the property for which the development would hinder. No minerals, petroleum or aggregate
resources are identified and no related uses such as pits, quarries or mines are located in
proximity tothe property. The existing church isnot classified as a cultural or heritage use and
no archeological areas of significance are located close to the property. Given the property is
devoid of any natural heritage or other resources it isnot subject to the provisions or policies
found under Section 2.0 of the PS.

Section 3.0 of the Provincial Policy Statement (PPS) 2014 sets forth polices for the protection
‘of public health and safety by directing development away from natural or human-made
hazards. The subject property does not contain any hazardous lands adjacent to waterbodies or
fivers, there are no beach hazards present, and no areas where flooding may occur.
Additionally, there are no human-made hazards in the form of mines, oil and gas hazards,
mineral aggregate and mining operations or petroleum resource operations.

Overal, the development proposal of two (2) 24 unit apartment buildings complies with all
necessary policies and provisions of the Provincial Policy Statement (PPS) 2014.

SUMMARY

‘The applicants are seeking a zoning by-law amendment forthe property located at 137 George
Street to faclitate the removal of the existing church and construct two (2) 24 unit apartment
buildings with 2 central parking area, The proposed zoning amendment will seek to re-zone the
Property from Residential Ninth Density Eighth Density Exception (RE-X) to permit the
development. The eastside ofthe property Is permitted for up to 5 storeys of development per
the Zoning By-Law Schedule 8 withthe westside ofthe property approved for up to 11 storeys
per the Official Plan Schedule B. The proposal is for two (2) three storey apartment buildings.

‘Apartment buildings are permitted on the property pursuant to Section 4.2.2.2 of the Offical
Plan and the development will conform to the Land Use & Built Form Policies of Section 4.23.

‘Additionally, the development complies with both the Provincial Policy Statement (PPS) 2014
and the City’s Downtown & Waterfront Master Plan & Urban Design Strategy. Site Plan Contro!
‘Approval willbe sought once the appropriate zoning is in place.

FLO. Box 20146 Perth, Ontario KTH SMG ph, 615-264-0600 fax: 615-264-0600 wi zanderplan com

Page 25

Page 98 of 109

Z@NDERPLON,

Your rural land planning experts
‘SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION

ZanderPlan staff confirmed with the City’s Director of Operations that a traffic impact study is
‘not required to support the proposal. in addition, ZanderPlan staff confirmed that there are no
Sourcewater Protection concerns related to this development proposal.

‘The application form has been revised to address the comments raised by Cty Planning staff on
December 21, 2017, and the Amendment request has been revised to reflect an R8-x zone.
Bicycle parking areas have been added to the site sketch, and the garbage enclosure area has
‘been revised to be compliant with the Zoning By-law. Additional site-specific requests have
been added to permit parking in the exterior side yard and to remove the requirement for a
children’s play area, It is notable that this a sketch only, and additional details including
landscaping will e added atthe site Plan Control stage.

We acknowledge that a Planning Act application will be required to consolidate the previously
severed lots, and will work with the solicitor and City staff to process this as soon as possible.

‘Should you have any further questions please do not hesitate to contact the undersigned.

Sincerely,

ey Ipacin

Tracy Zander, M.Pl MCIP, RPP.

Bio, Box 20148 Perth, Ontario KTH SMB ph. 615-264-6000 fax: 613-264 9600 win zancaTElan com
Page 27

SCHEDULE “G” TO REPORT 2018-027-03

alae

Page 99 of 109

Page 100 of 109

21Fob2018
REPORT TO THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE —
6 MARCH 2018

2018-028-03
PROPOSED GENERAL AMENDMENT D. DICK
TO ZONING BY-LAW 050-2014 DIRECTOR OF PLANNING (Acting)
CITY OF BROCKVILLE ANDREW MCGINNIS
FILE: 014-026 0202010) PLANNER I
RECOMMENDATION

4. THAT the proposed General Amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014 received
from the Planning Department, to add Micro-Breweries and Micro-Wineries to
lands zoned MD ~ Mixed Use Downtown, MW — Mixed Use Waterfront and MC —
Mixed Use Corridor be approved; and,

2. THAT the necessary bylaw be enacted.

PURPOSE

‘The purpose of this Report is to provide recommendation on proposed Amendments to
City of Brociwille Zoning By-law 050-2014 respecting the addition of *Mirco-Breweries”
and “Micro-Distilries’ to uses permitted on all lands zoned MD — Mixed Use
Downtown, MW — Mixed Use Waterfront and MC — Mixed Use Corridor, within the City
of Brockville

BACKGROUND

Staff regularly undertakes a review of issues raised through the usage of the City's
Comprehensive Zoning By-law. The frequency of such review ensures the continued
effectiveness of the by-law to regulate land use and development within the City, and
Provides an opportunity to incorporate new policy directions and/or legislative
requirements when necessary

Since Zoning By-law 050-2014 was adopted (10 June 2014), Staff have had muttiple
inquiries relating to Micro-Breweries and Distilleries within the Mixed Use Zones of the
City. Under the current by-law, these uses have been classified as “Employment Uses”
and are only permitted within the "Employment Areas” of our City due to the possible
size, massing and distribution aspects of these businesses. Smaller scale business
‘models were not anticipated at the time of adoption of the zoning by-law in 2014,

Staff have been actively reviewing zone provisions, definitions and requirements for the
proposed uses and are now in a position to recommend changes be brought forward
where the effectiveness of the By-law will permit the above uses within the Mixed Use
Zones of the City.

Page 101 of 109
2o1e.026-03 Page 2

Proposed General Amendment to Zoning By-Law 050-2014

File DY4-026 0 me

ANALYSISIOPTIONS

Currently, Zoning By-law 050-2014 does permit Breweries, Distlries and Wineries
Under the definition of “Manufacturing” and ‘Distribution’ and limits their location to
within the City’s Employment Zones (E1, E2 and E3) only. The current proposal is to
Permit these uses within the Mixed Use Zones around the City but on a much smaller
scale than intended for the Employment Areas.

‘The Mixed Use Zones intended for these amendments include the MD - Mixed Use
Downtown Zone, MW — Mixed Use Waterfront Zone and the MC — Mixed Use and
Corridor Zone (this zone encompasses the 1000 Islands Mall and the former Zellers
Plaza). See Schedule “A” attached to this report for a map showing the proposed
zones in which this amendment would apply.

It was initially proposed that these Micro-Breweries, Micro-Distileries or Micro-Wineries
‘would include a retail and/or restaurant and/or sampling area component, where the
products being produced are available for sale and/or service to customers on-site,
thereby supporting the commercial intent of the Mixed Use Zones. The proposal also
provided for such an operation to sell or distribute products for resale at other locations.

During the circulation process and days prior to the Public Meeting, concerns were
presented to the Planning Department by both the Chief Building Official and Chief Fire
Prevention Officer that by permitting these uses (specially Distileries) issues would
‘occur with the Ontario Building Code and the Ontario Fire Code.

Based on comments received, “Distileies” are classified as an F1 - High Hazard
Industrial occupancy and are’ restricted as to location next to other occupancies.
Specifically, “Distileries” cannot be located adjacent to any “A’, “B" or "C” occupancy;
this includes “Assembly Uses, “Care, Care and Treatment or Detention Uses” and
“Residential Uses". For clarification regarding “Residential Uses", this includes any
residential occupancy above, below or adjacent to any lands slated for an F1 — High
Hazard Industrial occupancy (Distillery)

Based on research conducted and comments received, Staff are proposing to remove
“Micro-Distileries” from the proposed list of uses and move forward with
recommendations on “Micro-Breweries’ and “Micro-Wineries’. Staff are proposing that
where permitted, “Micro-Breweries and Micro- Wineries" are:

a) Required to include retail and/or restaurant and/or sampling area
‘component;

) Permitted to have an outdoor patio area (subject to outdoor patio
regulations);

©) Be restricted to @ maximum bu
including storage;

4) Required to have a minimum of 50% of the building frontage to be ret
andlor restaurant andior sampling area component and must extend
minimum of 10.0 metres from the building face into the building;

ing footprint of 929.0 square metres,


Page 102 of 109
2018.026.03 Pages

Proposed General Amendment to Zoning By-Law 060.2014

Files 034-026,

'@) Contain a minimum of one (1) loading space on-site:
4) Parking shall be in accordance with Subsection 3.34;

1g) Not be permitted to have outdoor storage; and,

hh) Not cause nuisance due to noise, odour, dust, fumes, vibration or glare

‘A Proposed definition for the uses:

“Micro-Brewery or Micro-Winery” means a building used primarily for the small scale
production and distribution of beer, cider and/or wine products and must include retail
and/or restaurant and/or a sampling area component.

Public Participation

‘The application for Zoning By-law Amendment has proceeded through the normal
review process. On 06 February 2018, a Public Meeting was held by the Economic
Development and Planning Committee, Notice of the Public Meeting was advertised in
the “Brockville This Week" Newspaper and the “Brockville Recorder and Times”
Newspaper on 11 January 2018. Comments from City Departments and affected
agencies were also solicited. An excerpt from the Minutes of the Public Meeting is,
attached as Schedule “B” to this report.

‘Comments Received prior to the Pt tin

1. Brent Caskenette, Chief Building Official
‘© Micro-Breweries and Wineries are classified as F3 — Low Hazard
Industrial Occupancy. As such, they can be located next to all uses

permitted under the OBC but only with substantial fre separation.

‘+ Distileries are classified as F1-High Hazard Industrial and are restricted
as to location next to other occupancies. Example, they cannot be located
adjacent to a residential occupancy in any instance.

‘+ Additional consideration should be given to permitted locations under the
Zoning By-law and this amendment.

2. C. Cosgrove, Director of Operations
‘+ The Operations Department has no comments with respect to the
proposed amendment.

3. Steven Allen, Environmental Services, Supervisor of Engineering
‘+ Not opposed to the application; However, Environmental Services will
need to confirm the City’s infrastructure’s ability to accommodate the
development based on its location. Environmental Services will also
require water supply and sewage discharge demands in the pre-
consultation stage. The proposed development site will also need to meet,
the sewage discharge requirements established in the City’s Sewer Use

By-Law,

4, Sandra MacDonald, City Clerk
‘* No comments.

Page 103 of 109
2o1e026.03 Pages

Proposed General Amendment to Zoning By-Law 050-2014

Fle: 14-026 ea

5. Robert Nolan, Director of Economic Development
‘+ Noconcems with the proposed amendment.

6 Greg Healy, Chief Fire Prevention Officer
‘+ No concems with the proposed amendment as it pertains to the “Micro-
Brewery and/or Winery”
+ We do have concern with a Micro-Distilery. Discussion between
Planning, Building and Fire around the definition of a Micro-Distillery must
take place prior to approval of this amendment.

7. Wendy Onstein, Chair-DBIA
‘+ In support of the proposed amendments. We believe this change will
further support positive development in the downtown catchment area.

8. Mike Dakin, CRCA, Resource Planner
+ No comments/concems from the conservation authority.

9. Joan Mays, Health Unit
‘+ No objection to the proposed zoning amendment. However, we want to
remind the City that prior to any building permit applications being issued
for these types of premises, the Health Unit is to be notified. This will
enable a review of the plans and assessment oftheir business as it relates
to the Regulations that are enforced by the Health Unit

10. Alice Coleman, Enbridge Gas Distribution
‘© No objection.

Based on comments received both before and after the Public Meeting and should the
‘Committee be in agreement to remove the Micro-Distilery from the proposed uses, staff
are proposing the following amendments to permit Micro-Breweries and Micro-Wineries
within the Mixed Use Zones of the City:

Staff proposes that By-law 050-2014 be amended as follows:
1. Section 2.0 - Definitions

a) Add definition for "Micro-Brewery and Micro-Winery’. Said definition to
read as follows:

“165. Micro-Brewery and Micro-Winery, means a building used primarily
for the small scale production and distribution of beer, cider and/or wine
products and must include retail and/or restaurant andior a sampling area
component.”

Renumber following definitions accordingly.

Page 104 of 109
2018-026-03, Pages

Proposed General Amendment to Zoning By-Law 060.2014

File D14-025 ores

2. Section 3.0 General Provisions

1a) Add a new section under Section 3.26 ‘Micro-BreweryMicro-Winery’. Said
section to read as follows:

“3.26 Micro-Brewery / Micro-Winery

‘Where permitted by this By-law, a Micro-Brewery and/or Micro-Winery shall
be subject to the following provisions:

i) Required to include retail and/or restaurant andior sampling area
‘component:

1) Permitted to have an outdoor patio area (subject to outdoor patio
regulations)

k) Be restricted to a maximum building footprint of $29.0 square metres,
including storage;

1) Required to have a minimum of 50% of the building frontage to be retail
andfor restaurant and/or sampling area component and must extend a
minimum of 10.0 metres from the building face into the building;

1m) Contain a minimum of one (1) loading space on-site;

1) Parking shall be in accordance with Subsection 3.34;

©) Not be permitted to have outdoor storage; and,

P) Not cause nuisance due to noise, odour, dust, fumes, vibration or glare.”

Renumber following General Provisions accordingly.

b)

Section 3.0 - General Provisions, Subsection 3.34 ~ Parking Area
Requirements, a) Minimum Number of Parking Spaces, Table 3.34(b):
Parking Requirements for Commercial and Mixed Uses — add in “Micro-
Brewery and Micro:Winery* with the following requirement:

“1.0 space per 15,0 square metres gross leasable area for any restaurant,
retail andior sampling area and 1.0 space per 90.0 square metres gross
leasable area for all other floor space.”

3. Section 6.0 - Commercial and Mixed Use Zones

a) Section 6.0 — Commercial and Mixed Use Zones, Subsection 6.1 ~ Permitted
Uses, Table 6.1: Permitted Uses in Commercial and Mixed Use Zones, under the
heading "Use", add in subheading "Micro-Brewery and Micro-Winery’, add “x” for
Permitted use within the "MD" Mixed Use Downtown Zone, "MW" Mixed Use
‘Waterfront Zone and the “MC” Mixed Use and Commercial Zone.

Page 105 of 109
2o1e026-03 Pages

Proposed General Amendment to Zoning By-Law 050.2014

Fle D14-026 ee

POLICY IMPLICATIONS.

‘The Zoning By-law establishes provisions to guide development in the City of Brockville.
Staff believes that it is appropriate for Council to amend its Zoning By-law to implement
the recommendations of this report. The proposed amendments have been prepared for
approval and are outlined above.

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS.

None.

CONCLUSION

Following review of City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014, it is the recommendation
Of this report to support the proposed amendments to City of Brockville Zoning By-law
(050-2014, respecting the inclusion of "Micro-Breweries” and "Micro-Wineries" within the
"MD", "MVV" and "MC" Zones. This recommendation is reflected at the beginning of this
report.

‘Should the recommendation be supported, the By-law attached as Schedule “C” to this,

Report shall be finalized for execution by the May

D. Dick, CPA, CA ‘A McGinnis, MCIP, RPP, Dip.W.M.
Director of Pianning (Acting), and Planner Il
Director of Corporate Services.

5 Iman
City Manager

SCHEDULE “A” TO REPORT 2018-026-03

| 601 10 901 e624

Page 107 of 109

SCHEDULE “B” TO REPORT 2018-026-03

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, February 06, 2018

Page 4 of 4

2018-011-02
Proposed General Amendment to
Zoning By-Law 050-2014

Moved by: Councillor Bursey

‘THAT Report 2018-01-02 be received as information and that a report,
including final by-law on this matter be prepared by Staff for consideration
of the Economic Development Planning Committee at a future meeting.

‘CARRIED
Councillor Kalivas announced the meeting at 7:19 pm.

‘A. McGinnis announced that Notice of the Public Meeting was advertised in
the Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper and the Brockville This Week
on January 11, 2018 and various Agencies and Departments. In addition,
signs were posted on the subject property advising that the lands are the
subject of an Application for Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-
law 050-2014.

Councillor Kalivas, Chair, asked that any person wanting further notice of
the passage of the proposed amendments should give their full name,
address, e-mail and postal code to the Secretary prior to leaving the
meeting. Councillor Kalivas identified that “Request for Information
Sheets” were located at the back of the room.

Councillor Kalivas reviewed the procedures for the Public Meeting,

‘A. McGinnis provided an overview of the proposed amendments to the
zoning by-law.

‘The committee requested that staff provide a recommendation on parking
requirements.

No person spoke to the proposal.
‘No person completed the Request for Information form.

The meeting adjourned at 7:31 pm.

SCHEDULE “C” TO REPORT 2018-026-03

‘THE CORPORATION OF THE CITY OF BROCKVILLE
By-Law Number 000-2018

By-law to Amend City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014
(General Amendment - Report 2018-026-03 File D14-026)

WHEREAS the Council for the Corporation of the City of Brockville, on the 10
day of June, 2014, adopted City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014; and

WHEREAS the Council of the Corporation of the City of Brockville deems it
expedient to amend said Zoning By-law 050-2014;

NOW THEREFORE THE COUNCIL OF THE CORPORATION OF THE CITY OF
BROCKVILLE HEREBY ENACTS AS FOLLOWS:

‘That By-law 050-2014 be amended as follows:
4. Section 2.0 - Definitions

a) Add definition for “Micro-Brewery and Micro-Winery’. Sald definition to
read as follows:

“165. Micro-Brewery and Micro-Winery, means a building used primarily
for the small scale production and distribution of beer, cider and/or wine
products and must include retail and/or restaurant and/or a sampling area
component.”

Renumber following definitions accordingly
2. Section 3.0 - General Provisions

a) Add a new section under Section 3.26 "Micro-Brewery and/or Micro-Winery’
Said section to read as follows:

"3.26 Micro-Brewory and/or Micro-Winery

‘Where permitted by this By-law, a Micro-Brewery and/or Micro-Winery shall
be subject to the following provisions:

1a) Required to include retail and/or restaurant and/or sampling area
component;

b) Permitted to have an outdoor patio area (subject to outdoor patio
regulations);

©) Be restricted to a maximum building footprint of 929.0 square metres,
including storage;

4) Required to have a minimum of 50% of the building frontage to be retail
and/or restaurant and/or sampling area component and must extend a
minimum of 10.0 metres from the building face into the building;

Page 108 of 109

Page 109 of 109
By-Law 000-2018 City of Brockville 2

) Contain a minimum of one (1) loading space on-site:

4) Parking shall be in accordance with Subsection 3.34;

1g) Not be permitted to have outdoor storage; and,

hh) Not cause nuisance due to noise, odour, dust, fumes, vibration or glare.”

Renumber following General Provisions accordingly.

b) Section 3.0 - General Provisions, Subsection 3.34 ~ Parking Area
Requirements, a) Minimum Number of Parking Spaces, Table 3.24(b)
Parking Requirements for Commercial and Mixed Uses ~ add in "Micro-
Brewery and Micro-Winery” with the following requirement.

“1.0 space per 15.0 square metres gross leasable area for any restaurant,
retail and/or sampling area and 1.0 space per 90.0 square metres gross
leasable area for all other floor space.”

3. Section 6.0 Commercial and Mixed Use Zones

a) Section 6.0 ~ Commercial and Mixed Use Zones, Subsection 6.1 ~ Permitted
Uses, Table 6.1: Permitted Uses in Commercial and Mixed Use Zones, under
the heading “Use”, add in subheading "Micro-Brewery and Micro-Winery’, add
“x for permitted use within the “MD” Mixed Use Downtown Zone, "MW" Mixed
Use Waterfront Zone and the "MC" Mixed Use and Commercial Zone.

Given under the Seal of the
Corporation of the City of Brockville
‘and passed this 13" day of February, 2018

Mayor Clerk

