QO Economic Development &

BROCKVILLE Planning Committee
Tuesday, November 06, 2018, 4:15 pm
COMMITTEE MINUTES City Hall, Council Chambers:

Members Present:
Councillor M. Kalivas, Chair
Councillor J. Baker

Councillor L. Bursey

Mayor D. Henderson, Ex-Officio

Absent:
Councillor D. LeSueur

Other Members Present:
Councillor Blanchard

Staff:
D. Dick, Director of Corporate Services

J. Faurschou, Planner I

S. MacDonald, City Clerk

L. Murray, Deputy City Clerk (Recording Secretary)
R. Nolan, Director of Economic Development

M. Pascoe Merkley, Interim City Manager

L. White, Manager of Strategic Initiatives

The Chair called the meeting to order at 4:15 pm.
DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST

Nil.

DELEGATIONS AND PRESENTATIONS

1. Municipal Accommodation Tax
Joint Chamber and Accommodation Presentation

Carlie Sommerdyk, Ida Duc, Rob Thompson, Pam Robertson, Katherine

Hobbs, Jessica Barabash and Pat Markovitch reviewed their presentation
for the Committee regarding the Municipal Accommodation Tax.

Page 1 of 6

Economic Development and Planning (EDP) Committee Minutes
Tuesday, November 06, 2018

P. Robertson discussed their proposal for a new Brockville Tourism
Committee; they are suggesting it would be made up of two Councillors,
the Director of Economic Development, the Tourism Manager, the
Chamber's Executive Director, one Attraction Partner, one Accommodation
Partner and two citizens at large.

2. Municipal Accommodation Tax
Bonnie Ruddock, Regional Tourism Office #9
B. Ruddock spoke to the Committee regarding building a sustainable
tourism economy in Eastern Ontario.

3. Municipal Accommodation Tax
Francine Dunn
F. Dunn stated that she was in agreement with the initial speakers
regarding the Municipal Accommodation Tax.

(CORRESPONDENCE

Notice of Disposal of Prince of Wales Public School
(Upper Canada District School Board)

Moved by: Mayor Henderson

THAT staff be directed to complete the "Notice to Decline Proposal” and
return it to the Director of Education at the Upper Canada District School
Board.

CARRIED

REPORTS FROM BOARDS AND COMMITTEES

Nil.

‘STAFF REPORTS

1.

Page 2 of 6

2018-16-11
Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment

103 Broome Road, Part of Lot H, Plan 332

Being Parts 1 to 7, RP 28R-12720, City of Brockville

Economic Development and Planning (EDP) Committee Minutes
Tuesday, November 06, 2018

Page 3 of 6

Owner: 2581027 Ontario Inc.
Applicant: J. Norton
File No: 014-032

Moved by: Councillor Baker

THAT the C6-2 Power Centre Special Exception Zone of Zoning By-law 050-
2014 for lands described as Part of Lot H, Plan 332, City of Brockville,
County of Leeds, being Parts 1 to 7, RP 28R-12720 with municipal address
103 Broome Road, be amended, to permit an “Automobile Repair Garage”,
with the accessory sale of a maximum of 12 used vehicles, in addition to all
other permitted uses and a maximum of two (2) "Sea-Cans” for storage
purposes associated with the business.

THAT the request for exemption from the requirement to pave the parking
area, be denied.

CARRIED, AS AMENDED ON A LATER VOTE
Motion to Amend

Moved by: Mayor Henderson

THAT the municipal address of 103 Broome Road, be amended, to permit an
“Automobile Repair Garage”, and permit the sale of used automobiles with a

maximum number of 12; and

THAT the maximum number of "Sea-Cans” be nine (9) for a period of up to
three (3) years; and

THAT the requirement for paving of the lot be postponed for a period of up
to three (3) years or until the completion of the new building whichever
comes first.

CARRIED

The vote on the original motion, as amended, was now taken and the
‘motion, as amended, was carried.

Economic Development and Planning (EDP) Committee Minutes
Tuesday, November 06, 2018

Page 4 of 6

Moved by: Mayor Henderson

THAT the C6-2 Power Centre Special Exception Zone of Zoning By-law 050-
2014 for lands described as Part of Lot H, Plan 332, City of Brockville,
County of Leeds, being Parts 1 to 7, RP 28R-12720 with municipal address
103 Broome Road, be amended, to permit an “Automobile Repair Garage”,
and permit the sale of used automobiles with a maximum number of 12; in
addition to all other permitted uses and a maximum of nine (9) "Sea-Cans”
for storage purposes associated with the business be permitted for a period
of up to three (3) years; and

THAT the requirement for paving of the lot be postponed for a period of up
to three (3) years or until the completion of the new building whichever
comes first.

CARRIED

Councillor Baker wanted to point out that during the Public Planning Meeting
is was identified that the applicant is limited as to what can be done on his
property due to and underground pipeline that crosses these lands.

2018-115-11
Proposed Allocation of the
Municipal Accommodation Tax

THAT the proposed allocation of the Municipal Accommodation Tax (MAT) be
received;

THAT Stakeholders be advised to provide written response to the proposed
allocation to the Manager of Strategic Initiatives by November 16th;

THAT a MAT implementation working group of not more than five members,
as determined by the TAC, be struck;

THAT a MAT implementation working group consult with the Chair of the
Economic Development and Planning Committee and the Director of
Economic Development of the implementation of the MAT by November
23rd;

THAT staff report back to December EDP Committee with the final MAT
allocation after considering written responses and recommendation on the
implementation;

Economic Development and Planning (EDP) Committee Minutes
Tuesday, November 06, 2018

Proposed Allocation

THAT the allocation of MAT proceed are subject to annual approval by
Council;

THAT the funds received from the MAT, as at December 31st each year, be
allocated as follows:

1. 50% up to a maximum of $200,000 to the Aquatarium;

2. 50% of the balance, to be disbursed to new projects, new or existing
festivals as seed money, based on recommendations from the Tourism
‘Advisory Committee (TAC);

a. Projects to be one-time allocations or a maximum of two years
with entity not able to apply in the third year;

b. Recommendations to include financial summary of previous
year's usage of funds (if applicable);

. Applications with financial information will be received by the
City of Brockville each November, compiled and forwarded to the
TAC for evaluation. The recommendations will be presented by
the TAC annually in January to EDP Committee, and then to
Council for approval. Funds will be disbursed by the City of
Brockville.

4. Council reserves the right to full discretionary control of all
funding.

3. 40% of the balance, to the TAC for additional marketing;
a. City assets must be included in all marketing (Aquatarium,
Tunnel, Brockville Arts Centre, Museum, Library and Municipal
Harbour)

4. 10% of the balance, to the City Tourism Infrastructure Reserve. A
reserve intended to be used for tourism-related opportunities that are
unknown when seed funds are allocated each year (Item 2). These
funds will be disbursed by Council and may not need to be fully
disbursed each year;

THAT $50,000 of the 2018 MAT receipts, before the formula is applied, is
allocated to the Aquatarium as authorized by Council resolution at the
Council meeting of Tuesday, July 24th, 2018; and

THAT no fee be charged by the City for administration of the MAT.

Page 5 of 6

Economic Development and Planning (EDP) Committee Minutes
Tuesday, November 06, 2018

Nil.
CONSENT AGENDA
Moved by: Councillor Baker

THAT the following items be placed on Consent Agenda and forwarded to Council
for their consideration:

1. Notice of Disposal of Prince of Wales Public Schoo!
2. 2018-16-11
Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment, 103 Broome Road
CARRIED
MEDIA QUESTION PERIOD
ADJOURNMENT

Moved by: Councillor Bursey

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee adjourned its meeting
until the next regular meeting scheduled for December 4, 2018.

CARRIED

The meeting adjourned at 5:38 pm.

Page 6 of 6

