Page 1 of 23,

Economic Development and

Planning Committee
Tuesday, November 7, 2017, 6:00 pm
City Hall, Council Chambers

Committee Members Areas of Responsibility
Councillor D. LeSueur, Economic Development Economic Development
Chair Planning Advisory Team
Councillor J. Baker Chamber of Commerce Museum Board
Councilor J. Earle DBIA Ubrary Board
Councillor M. Kalivas Heritage Brockville Arts Centre
Mayor D. Henderson, Tourism
Ex-Officio

Page PUBLIC MEETING

AGENDA
Report

2-23 1, 2017-108-11
Source Water Protection Plan
Proposed Amendment to the Official Plan
and Amendment to the Zoning By-law 050-2014
City of Brockville

THAT Report 2017-108-11 be received as information and that a
report on this matter be prepared by staff for consideration of the
Economic Development Planning Committee at a future meeting.

Page 2 of 23,

30 OCTOBER 2017
REPORT TO THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE - PUBLIC
MEETING - 07 NOVEMBER 2017

2017-08-11
‘SOURCE WATER PROTECTION PLAN:

PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE D. Dick
OFFICIAL PLAN AND AMENDMENT TO DIRECTOR OF PLANNING (ACTING)
ZONING BY-LAW 050-2014 ‘J. FAURSCHOU
CITY OF BROCKVILLE PLANNER I

FILES 009-08 and D14-025,
RECOMMENDATION
THAT Report 2017-108-11 be received as information and that @ report on this matter be

prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic Development Planning Committee at a
future meeting.

PURPOSE

To provide information for purposes of conducting a Public Meeting under the Planning Act
respecting the following:

‘+ Application for Amendment to the Official Plan forthe City of Brockville; and
+ Application for Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-aw 050-2014

|
2s hey pertain tothe requrements unde the Clean Wetr Ac, 208, |
|
|

BACKGROUND

‘On 26 November 2014, approval was granted by the Ministry of the Environment and Climate
‘Change (MOECC) for Cataraqui Source Protection Plan, dated November 2014, which
document was prepared as based on the requirements of the Ontario Clean Water Act, 2006
‘and in accordance with Ontario Reguiation 287/07. The Plan took effect on O1 Aptil 2018 with
Integration into applicable legislation ‘no later than at tho time of tho next fve year review
‘required under section 26 of the Planning Act"

‘Section 26 of the Planning Act reads as follows:

"26. Updating official plans - (1) If an official plan isin effect in a municipality, the council of tho
‘municipality that adopted the oficial plan shall, in accordance with subsection (1.1), revise the
official plan as required to ensure that if,

(2) conforms with provincial plans or does not conflict with them, as the case may be:

(b) has regard fo the matters of provincial interast listed in section 2; and

() is consistent with policy statements issued under subsection 3 (1). 2018, ¢. 26, s. 24 (1) |

Page 8 of 23,

2017-108-11 Page 2
‘Souree Water Protection Pl

Proposed Amendment tothe Official Plan and
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-Law 050-2014
City of Brockville.

Files 009-09 and 014-025

(1.1) Tho council shal revise the plan no less frequently than,
(a) 10 years after it comes ino effect as a new oficial plan; and

() every five years thereafter, unless the plan has been replaced by another new official
plan. 2015, c. 26, . 24 (1)."

‘The Official Plan forthe City of Brockville was approved 08 February 2012.

‘The Source Protection Plan identifies municipalities, provincial ministries and the Cataraqui
Source Protection Authority as the main implementing bodies ofthe Plan.

Municipalities are generally responsible for:

‘+ Enforcing Part IV of the Clean Water Act related to prohibition, risk management plan
and restricted land use policies identified inthe Pran.

© Making decisions under the Planning Act and Condominium Act that conform with
significant threat policies, and that have regard to other policies in the Plan,

‘+ Ensuring that their Oficial Plans conform with the Source Protection Plan polices that
address significant threats no later than at the time of the next five year review required
under section 26 of the Planning Act

‘+ Updating existing municipal operations and programs.

+ Collaborating on research studies, education and outreach programs, and incentive
programs

+ Reporting on the implementation of source protection policies to the Cataraqui Source
Protection Authority. Municipalties have responsibilties under the Clean Water Act and
‘Ontario Regulation 287/07 (General) that are independent of the Source Protection Pian,
including the requirement to notify the Source Protection Authority and Source
Protection Committee of proposals that could change the delineation and vulnerability
‘score of a wellhead protection area or intake protection zone

‘The Ontario Building Code also requires municipaites to establish mandatory on-site sewage
‘system maintenance inspection programs for those areas where septic systems are or would be
significant drinking water threats, as identified in the Assessment Report. As there are no
significant drinking water threats for septic systems in the City of Brockvile, the Plan
recommends that septic system inspection programs under the Ontario Building Code Act be
established in areas that are subject to risk of contamination from on-site sewage systems.

Page 4 of 23,

2017-108-11 Page 3
‘Source Water Protection Plan ~

Proposed Amendment tothe Official Plan and

Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-Law 050-2014

City of Brockvilo

Files 009.09 and 014.025

Drinking Water Source Protection

Drinking water is protected under the Clean Water Act, 2008, c, 22, s. 1, which states as its
purpose “fo protect existing and future sources of drinking water.” Furthermore, Section 38
States the following:

“38. A municipality, local board or source protection authonty shail comply with any
obligation that is imposed on it by a significant threat policy ... that is set out in the
source protection pan.

In addition, Subsection 22(1) of Ontario Regulation 287/07, identifies the objectives of the
Source Protection Plan as follows: .

"22. (1) Every source protection plan shall set out the following as objectives ofthe plan:
1. To protect existing and future drinking water sources in the source protection area.

2. Ensure that, for every area identified in the Assessment Report (Juno 2011) as an
area where an activity is or would be a significant drinking water throat,

|. the activity never becomes a significant drinking water threat, or

ii if the activity is occurring when the source protection plan takes effect, the
‘activity ceases to be a significant drinking water threat.”

‘The Cataraqui Source Protection Plan includes policies to protect vulnerable areas around
municipal residential drinking water supplies and other sensitive groundwater areas within the
Cataraqui Source Protection Area

Designated Vulnerable Areas

‘There are four (4) types of vulnerable areas:

Wellhead protection areas
Intake protection zones .
Highly vulnerable aquifers

Significant groundwater recharge areas

Lands within the wellhead protection areas and intake protection zones are identified in the
Vulnerable Area overlay and the limits of the IPZ-1 and IPZ-2 as per the Source Water
Protection Plan as it applies to the City lands and adjoining Township of Eizabethtown-Kitley
land and the screening area within the City are identified on the schedules attached to the
[Proposed amendments to the Official Plan and the proposed amendments to Zoning By-law
050-2014, as amended. There are no wellhead protection areas within the City of Brockville


Page 5 of 23,

2017-108-11 Pages
Source Water Protection Pl

Proposed Amendment tothe Official Plan and
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-Law 050-2044
Clty of Brockville

Files 009-09 and 014.025

Land uses in the underlying designations may be subject fo requirements of Cataraqui Source
Protection Plan polices as follows:

4. Policies that are made under Part IV of the Clean Water Act that prohibit or require risk
management plans for particular activites. Development applications in these areas
‘must be screened and directed to the isk management official as appropriate to ensure
source protection requirements are met prior to processing Planning Act, Condominium
‘Act oF Ontario Bulding Code applications

2. Policies that recommend risk management measures for activities associated with
Particular land uses where large volumes of chemicals or pollutants are stored andlor
handled

3. Policies that prohibit the establishment of uses which would be @

water threat

ificant drinking

‘Accordingly, In order to meet requirements under the Clean Water Act, the results of the
Cataragui Source Protection Plan must be incorporated into various municipal documentation
including, but not limited to, the Official Plan for the City of Brockville and City of Brockville
Zoning By-law 060-2014,

‘The following report addresses the required amendments to the Official Plan for the City of
Brockville and City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 and addresses the need for future
‘amendments to said documents.

‘Schedule “A” to this Report identifies the proposed amendments to the Official Plan for the
City of Brockvile,

Schedule “B" to
By-Law 050-2014,

Repot identities the proposed amendments to City of Brockville Zoning
below (See Schedule “C" to
this Report):

1. Hydro One, Brockville Area, Gary Klein-Swormink, Supervising Distribution Technician,
E-mail 18 October 2017.

‘© ‘Hydro One has no concerns with the proposed amendments,”

2. Cataraqui Region Conservation Authority (CRCA), Michael Dakin, Resource Planner:
+ See attached letter dated 26 October 2017,

Page 6 of 23,

2017-108-11 Pages
‘Souree Water Protection

Proposed Amendment tothe Official Plan and
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-Law 050-2014
City of Brockvi

Files 009.09 and 014.025

Potential issues for Discussion:
41. Appropriateness ofthe requested Oficial Pian Amendment.
2. Appropriateness of the requested Zoning By-law Amendment
3. Incorporation of proposed changes as provided by CRCA..

POLICY IMPLICATIONS

‘The contents of this report are provided for information purposes for the Public Meeting.
Following the Public Meeting, Planning Department Staff will prepare a report for consideration
of the Economic Development Planning Committee which will include review and consideration
(of policies that are relevant to the proposed amendment.

CONCLUSION

The Staff Report on these matters, including a detailed analysis of the proposed amendments,
review and consideration of the issues raised and at the Public Meeting and to address those in
comments received and a recommendation from Planning Staff, will be prepared for
Consideration of the Economic Development Planning Committee ata future meeting

of8

D.Dick, CPA, CA shou, MCIP, RPP
Director of Corporate Services Plan

Director of Planning (Acting)

B. Casselman P. Raabe

City Manager Director of Environmental Services


Page 7 of 23,

SCHEDULE “A” TO REPORT 2017-108-11,

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE OFFICIAL PLAN
FOR THE CORPORATION OF THE CITY OF BROCKVILLE

The following amendments to the Official Plan forthe City of Brockville are being proposed:
‘SECTION 4; OUR CITY OUR PLAN

Delete the definition of “Source Water Protection Plan’ under Section 1.5.1-Terms Used In Our
Plan, and replace withthe folowing updated tex:

"Source Protection Plan moans a document that is prepared by a Source Protection
Committee under Section 22 of the Ontario Clean Waters Act, 2006, to direct source
protection activities in a source protection area. Each plan is approved by the Ontario
Ministry ofthe Environment.”

(Source: Cataraqui Source Protection Plan, May 2014)

Note: Unless otherwise defined or interpreted fo be defined by the definitions in this Section
(of the Official Pan for the City of Brockville (Pian) or through the policies of this Plan, terms
‘and words used in the “Source Protection Plan” shall be interpreted as defined in the
“Glossary” section of the Source Protection Plan, where such terms are defined by said
document. in the case of a discrepancy between the Clean Water Act, 2006, and this Plan,
the Clean Water Act, 2006, shall preva,

‘Add a new definition under Section 1.5.1-Terms Used In Our Plan, for “Drinking Water Throat”
to,ead as follows:

“Drinking Water Threat” means an activity or condition that adversely affects or has the
potential fo adversely affect the quality or quantity of any water that is or may be used as a
‘source of drinking water, and includes an activity or condition that is prescribed by the
regulations as a drinking water threat

‘+A significant drinking water threat is a drinking water threat that, according to the risk
‘assessment, poses oF has potential fo pose a significant risk.

‘+ Amoderate drinking water threat thet, according (o a risk assessment, poses or has the
potential to pose a moderate risk.

‘+ A low chinking water threat that, according to a risk assessment, poses or has the
potential to pose a low risk.”

(Source: Cataraqui Source Protection Pian, May 2014)


Page 8 of 23,

‘Add a new definition under Section 1.5.1-Terms Used In Our Plan, for “Intake Protection Zone”
toread as follows:

“Intake Protection Zone” moans the area of land and water that contributes source water to
4 inking water system intake within a specified distance, period of flow time and/or
watershed area,”

(Source: Cataraqui Source Protection Plan, May 2014)

‘Add a new definition under Section 1.6.1-Terms Used In Our Pian, for ‘Restricted Land Use” to
‘oad as follows:

“Restricted Land Use moans a type of land use (a. Industria) within a welthead protection
«area or intake protection zone that has been designated under Part IV of the Clean Water
‘Act and that is normally associated with one or more activities that are significant drinking
water threats (e.g. the handling and storage of and organic solvent). When reviewing
planning and building applications in a restricted land use area, municipalities are required
{0 consider whother or not a given development would lead to the establishment of activities
that aro:

1. prohibited by this source protection plan, or
2 subject toa site-specific risk management plan.

1f elevant activities are proposed as part ofthe development, then related planning and
bulding approvals by the municipality’ must exclude prohibited activites and confiem with
any risk management plar(s) forthe site, as applicable.” |

(Source: Cataraqui Source Protection Plan, May 2014)

‘Add a new definition under Section 1.6.1-Terms Used In Our Plan, for ‘Risk Management
Officiar to read as follows:

"Risk Management Official means a person appointed by the council of a municipality that
Js responsible for the enforcement of Part IV of the Clean Water Act, and who has the
{qualifications prescribed in Ontario Regulation 287/87, as amended.”

(Source: Cataraqui Source Protection Plan, May 2014)

‘Add a new definition under Section 1.5.1-Terms Used In Our Plan, for ‘Risk Management Plan”
toread as follows:

Clean Water Act to address significant drinking water threat actives, where the threat
Cannot be addrossod through a differont means, such as a prescribed instrument. Note that
this tool cannot be used for most waste disposal and all sewage-related activities that
require a cortiicate of approval under the Environmental Protection Act or the Ontario
Resources Act, or a permit under the Ontario Building Code."

|
|
“Risk Management Plan means a site-specific plan negotiated under section 58 of the |
|
(Source: Cataraqui Source Protection Plan, May 2014) |


Page 9 of 23,

‘Add a new definition under Section 1.5.1
‘8 follows:

ferms Used In Our Plan, for "Source Water" to read

"Source Water means Untreated water that is found in groundwater aquifers and
‘surface water lakes and rivers that is usod to supply a drinking water system.”

(Source: Cataraqui Source Protection Plan, May 2014)

‘Add a new definition under Section 1.5.1-Terms Used In Our Plan, for ‘Nutrient Management
Plan’ to read as follows:

‘Nutrient Management Plan means a plan that details how nutrients are to be applied
{0 a given land base. A nutrient management plan is based on both the components of

the nutrients usod and th characteristics of the field. The plan optimizes the utiization of
the nutrients by crops in the field and minimizes the environmental impacts. A person |
‘who owns or controls an agricultural operation, which is phased in under Ontario
Regulation 267/03, and generates, greater than or equal to 300 nutrient units or is
Focated within 100 metres of a municipal well must ensure that nutrionts are managed in
‘accordance with @ plan if they apply nutrients on their farm unit.”

(Source: Cataraqui Source Protection Plan, May 2014)

‘Add a new definition under Section 1.5.1-Terms Used In Our Plan, for “Salt Management Plan”
to read as follows:

‘Salt Management Plan means a plan wherein road authorities propare salt
‘management plans that identity actions they will take to improve their practices in salt
storage, general use on roads and snow disposal.”

(Source: Code of Practice, The Environmental Management of Road Salts, Ministry
‘of Environment and Climate Change, Modified 2013-07-02)

SECTION 2: CHARTING NEW PLANNING DIRECTIONS FOR OUR CI
No Change.
‘SECTION 3: BUILDING OUR HEALTHY & SUSTAINABLE CITY

Remove Policy 3.6.1 (8) in its entirety and replace it withthe following:

|
3.6:1 Water Resources |
"8. In accordance with th Clean Water Act, 2006, and in accordance with Ontario
Regulation 287/07, the City of Brockvile, the Cataraqui Region Conservation |
‘Authority, and Caiaraqui Source Protection Commitee prepared the Cataraqul |
Source Protection Pan. |
On 26 November 2014, approval was granted by the Ministy ofthe Environment and
Climate Change (MOECC) forthe "Cataraqui Source Protection Plan (CSPP), dated
‘November 2014". The Plan took eflect on O1 Apri 2016." |


Page 10 of 23,

Upon periodic review of the CSPP, the Cily of Brockville may, through an
_amenximent to the Official Plan, incorporate the recommended amendment(s) of the
CSPP, as necessary and appropriate.”

‘Add a new sub-section, Sub-section 3.6.10 Source Water Protection, to address policies
‘concerning Source Water Protection as folows:

"36

Minimizing Our Impact on the Environment

3.6.10 SOURCE WATER PROTECTION

10

Drinking Water Protection

Uncontaminated and plentiful surface and groundwater resources are essential to
the safe and adequate provision of drinking water. In order to meet the present and
future needs of residents, businesses and the natural environment, its the policy of
this Plan to ensure sustainable surface and groundwater resources through the
‘protection, conservation and caroful management of the quality and quantily of
drinking water sources.

‘As water contamination is extremely difficult, costly and sometimes impossible to
rectify, prevention of contamination Is the most appropriate strategy. Surface and
(groundwater sources shail be protected from a full range of drinking water thats.

‘Source water protection polices in this Official Plan are consistent with the intent of
;palcies included in the Cataraqui Source Protection Plan. For clarification and policy
detail, the Cataraqui Source Protection Plan must bo referenced.

In the event of conflict between long-term protection of drinking water sources and
‘ther considerations; drinking water shall take priority. The Cataraqui Source
Protection Plan made under the Clean Water Act, 2006, applies to the Cataraqui
‘Source Protection Area. It is intended to protect vulnerable areas including intake
‘protection zones and wellhead protection areas around municipal residential drinking
water supplies, as well as highly vulnerable aquifers and significant groundwater
recharge areas from activities identified as drinking water threats, per the Clean
Water Act, 2006.

The terms used in this section carry the same meaning as those in the Cataraqui
‘Source Protection Pian and the Clean Water Act, 2006,

‘As an implementation body identified in the Cataraqui Source Protection Plan, the
‘municipalty wil

+ comply with significant crinking water threat polcios:

+ have regard forall other land use planning; and

* provide due consideration for other non-binding recommendations in the
CCataraqui Source Protection Pian to realize source water protection,


14

Page 11 of 23,

“Monitoring and reporting consistent with requirements and / or recommendations in
the Cataraqui Source Protection Plan and in a format specified by the Cataraqui
‘Source Protection Authority and the Province of Ontario wil be completed by the
‘municipality.

Vulnerable Areas

‘Under the Clean Water Act, a vulnerable area is defined as a wellhead protection
4area, an intake protection zone, a significant groundwater recharge area or a highly
vulnerable aquifer. The Provincial Policy statement (2014) also accounts. for
‘municipal drinking water supplies and designated vulnerable areas.

1) The municipality wil adapt municipal operations, consider program development,
‘and work in partnership with the Cataragui Source Protection Authority and
‘others to comply with or support source water protection within vulnerable areas,
fas per tho details and timeframes included in the Cataraqui Source Protection
Plan.

“Schedule 7A-Source Water Protection Screening Areas” identifes vulnerable areas
{a Intake Protection Zones (IPZ's) where the folowing polices shall apply:

1.4.1 Drinking Water System Vulnerable Areas

For source protection, particular activities that have the potential to pollute
‘drinking water are called “drinking water threats” since they pose a risk of
pluton. The polices of this Plan take into account drinking water threats
‘that must or should be considered if they were to become established.
Depending on their scale, the type of activity and their proximity to the
‘source of drinking water, drinking water threats are ranked significant,
‘moderate and iow.

"Schedule 7-Source Water Protection Screening Areas” identifies areas of
utherabilty for drinking water sources including wellhead protection areas
‘and intake protection zones. Schedule “7” is to be used as an overlay to
"Schedule 1-City Structure’: Primary Land Use Designations, where the
following polices shall apply:

1.1.1.2 Intake Protection Zones

i. New development and / or expansions to existing development that
involve waste disposal sites within intake protection 1 and waste
water treatment facilties, including related infrastructures within intake
protection zones 1 and 2, are prohibited where they would constitute a
‘significant drinking water threat.

it Now dovolopment and/ or expansions fo existing development within
intake protection zones 1 and 2 that involve the storage or
‘manufacture of potential contaminants (that could include DNAPLS,
organic solvents, commercial fertilizers, liquid fuel, pesticides, sewage
and road salt) where they would be moderate or low drinking water


Page 12 0f 23

threats may be subject to the implementation of risk management
‘measures to protect the drinking water supply

fi, New development andior expansions, alterations or redevelopment of
existing development for all non-residential uses within intake
protection zones 1 and 2 where signlicant drinking water threats can
‘occur may be pormited, if the Risk Management Official (RMO) is
satisfied thatthe threat fo drinking water ceases fo exist. Submission
of correspondence from tho RMO under section 59 of the Clean
Water Act is required for all non-residential planning applications or
land use changes, as per the Restricted Land Use Referral Process.

fv. The Zoning By-Law shail prohibit or restrict land uses that involve
significant drinking water threats and require risk management
‘measures, as applicable in intake protection zones.

1.2 Regionally Vulnerable Groundwater Areas

‘As with many areas in easter Ontario, thin sols and fractured bedrock dominate the
‘majority of the landscape within the City of Brockville. These conditions result in
widespread recharge and high groundwater vulnerabilly.

“Schedule 7B-Highly Vulnerable Aquifors & Significant Groundwater Recharge
Areas” identifies significant groundwater recharge areas (SGRAs) and highly
‘vulnerable aquifers (HVAs) where the following policies shall apply:

1.21 Highly Vulnerable Aquifers and Significant Groundwater Recharge Areas

New development and / or expansions to existing development within
significant groundwater recharge areas and/or highly vulnerable
‘aquifers. that involve the storage or manufacture of potential
Contaminants (that could include DNAPLs, organic solvents,
‘commercial fertiizer, pesticides, liquid fuel, road salt, snow storage,
‘mine tallings and PCBs) where they would be drinking water threats
‘may be subject fo the implementation of risk management measures
to:protect the groundwater.

i) The Zoning By-Law shall prohibit or restrict land uses that involve
significant drinking water threats and require risk management
‘measures, as applicable in highly vulnerable aquifers and significant
recharge areas.

1.3 Application and Development Process

|. New development andior expansions to existing development associated with
‘non-residential planning applications located within vulnerable areas identified on
Schedule 7 may be subject to Site Plan Control Requirements may include a
"Risk Reduction Plan" to identily measures to be incorporated into the
development for land uses that involve the storage or manufacture of potential
‘contaminants (that could include DNAPL, organic solvents, commercial fertizer,


Page 13 of 23,

pesticides, sewage, liquid fue, road salt, snow storage, mine talings and PCBs)
‘where it would constitute a drinking water threat. The Risk Reduction Plan must
‘be completed to the satistaction ofthe municipality.

i. The above-noted "Risk Reduction Plan" requirement may be waived at the :
discretion ofthe Risk Management Official or the City of Brockvil

1.4 Now Drinking Wator Systoms

1. New municipal drinking water systems could result in existing land uses
‘becoming significant drinking water threats. Care shall be taken to avoid this
‘outcome wherever feasible.

i. The establishment of new municipal drinking water systems, as defined under
the Safe Drinking Water Act, 2002, a8 amended, will require an amendment to :
the Cataraqui Source Protection Plan and this Official Plan

‘SECTION 4; DEVELOPING OUR THRIVING CITY STRUCTURE
No Change,
‘SECTION 5: SERVICING OUR CITY

‘Amend Section Servicing Our City, Sub-section 5.3 Water & Services, sub-sub-section 5.3.1
8, to add reference to the new policy sub-section 3.8, 10 Source Water Protection to read as
follows

"8 The City may, as necessary and appropriate through an amendment (o the Oficial
Plan, incorporate the policies and recommendations of the Cataraqui Source
Protection Committee's Drinking Water Source Protection Plan to ensure that the
drinking water for the City and surrounding region is protected for the long term,
in accordance with the policies of Section 3.6.1. 8. and 36.1 10 Source Water
Protection

SECTION

: IMPLEMENTING OUR CITY'S PLAN

‘Amend Section 6.4.13-Supporting Studies, Information and Materials for Development
‘Applications, by adding @ new Sub-section 9 to identify technical studies and reports which may
'be required for new development and for change of use to read as follows:

"8. In addition information required under Section 6.4.13, Subsection 4 and
‘Subsection 5, al dovolopment within Intake Protection’ Zone 1 and Intake
Protection Zone 2, as identified on Schedulo 7: Intake Protection Zones to this
lan, shall require pre-consuttation with the Planning Department. Where
deemed necessary, futher pro-consultation and review by the designated “Risk
‘Management Officer” shall be undertaken. Said pre-consultation may require
‘preperation and submission ofthe following Plans;

1 Nutrient Management Plan;


Page 14 of 23,

it Risk Management Plan;
jit Salt Management Plan;
v. Restricted Land Use Declaration Form.

‘SCHEDULES |
‘Add new Schedules to the Official Ptan to identify Intake Protection Zones as follows:

i, “Schedule 7 Overall, Source Water Protection Screening Areas, Surface Water
Intake Protection’ as per Schedule “B” to this Report

i “Schedule 78 Source Water Protecion Screening Areas, Highly Vulnerable
‘Aquifers & Significant Groundwater Recharge Areas” as per Schedule °B" to this
Report |


Page 15 of 23,

seary Buus910g
Uwont2ejo1d 16¥eM4 eaunos

Ien0 Lampang

siypd 0 hyo ro

Bae

@TMAMOOU


abe wun at

seaiy Bujuooiog
opoajoid Jem 321n0g
az anes
syd sno hyo amo

STTAMOOUR


‘SCHEDULE “B” TO REPORT 2017-108-11

Proposed Amenciments to the City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014

Intake Protection Zone (IPZ) - Zone Provision:
New - Part 2 Definitions:

‘Add the folowing definition and re-number the remaining definitions

"227. Souree Protection Plan, means the Cataraqui Source Protection Plan, created in

accordance with the Clean Water Act, 2006, and in accordance with Ontario

‘The following amendments to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 are being proposed:
Regulation 287/07, which came into effect on 01 April 2015. |
|

For the purposes of this By-law, and notwithstanding definitions located elsewhere in
this By-law, where definitions related (0 the Cataraqui Source Protection Plan, as
amended, are not included in the City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014, as
‘amended, those definitions used in the Cataraqui Source Protection Plan shall be
applicable.”

New - Part 3 General Provisions:

‘Add the following text and renumber the following sub-section.
"345 Source Protection
3.45.1 Intake Protection Zones
a) IPZ-t
IPZ-1 is composed of those lands as identified as IPZ-1 in “Appendix 3:
Screening Area for The Cataraqui Source Protection Plan - Intake Protection
Zones"
by IPZ-2

|P2-2 is composed of those lands identified as IPZ-2 in “Appendix 3: Screening
‘Area for The Cataraqui Source Protection Plan - Intake Protection Zones”

3.45.2 Permitted Uses

All uses existing a the date of passing this By-Law shall be permitted uses within the
Intake Protection Area, Al uses permitted within the underlying zone shall be
permitted within the vulnerable area with the exception of those listed in Section |
3.45.3 of tis By-Law. |


Page 18 of 23,

Proposed Amendments to the City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 2

3.45.3 Prohibited Uses

Whore the following uses are permitted in an underlying zone, they are prohibited in
‘accordance with Section 3.6.10-Source Water Protection of the Official Plan in the
‘areas with a vulnerability score of 10:

1) Waste disposal sites involving one or more of the folowing activities:

+ application of arcutural source material, non areutural source mara
Gd untreated soptage to and
+ Storage of in tings |
Lond farming of parloun rang woste |
 Lanaiing af hazardous waste municpal wasto and soli non-hazardous |
‘ndstil or commercial waste |
Liu instil wast econ ito wot |
2 PCB wast storage |
|

1) Wastewater treatment facies and related infrastructure including:

‘+ Sanitary sewers and related pipes, except in relation to the expansion or
Upgrade of existing facltios|
‘+ Sewage treatment plant effluent discharges including lagoons and sewage
‘slorage, except in relation to the expansion or upgrade of existing faciltios

Whore the following uses are permitted in an underlying zone, they are prohibited in
accordance with Section 3.6.10 Source Water Protection, of the Official Plan in the
‘areas with a vulnerability Score of 8:

1) Waste disposal sites inating
+ Lancing of nazardous, minipal and sold nor hazardous industrial or
+ Tails waste hjcon nt wal |
£9, Wastewater treatment facies incuding: |

‘+ The storage of sewage, excopt in relation to the expansion or upgrade of
existing facies

3.45.4 Restricted Uses

Where the following uses are permitted in an underying zone, @ Risk Mitigation
Report must be prepared in accordance with soction #4 of the Official Plan, as
‘amended, prior to the issuance of a building permit in areas with a vulnerability score
of Bor less:

1. Handling or storage of more than 250 litres of a dense non-aqueous phase fiquid
‘and/or organic solvent associated with metal manufacturing facies,
tlectroplating and fabrication industry facilities, automotive or equipment repair
shops, furniture refinishing shops, dry cleaning establishments other facilities


Page 19 of 23,
Proposed Amendments to the City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 3

2. Handle and storage of more than 2,500 kilograms or litres of commercial fertilizer
‘and/or the handing and storage of more than 2,600 kilograms or fires of
pesticides to soll or use for application at other sites associated with lawn and
‘garden centres, farm supply stores, lawn maintenance contractor yards, golf
Courses and other facilties except those that manufacture or process commercial
{ertiizer or pesticides”.

New: Appendix

‘Add a new Appendix “Appendix 3: Screening Area for The Cataraqui Source Protection
lan: Vulnerable Areas and Surface Water Intake Protection” to the By-law.

‘See attached Appendix 3.

STTANOOUd


‘SCHEDULE “C” TO REPORT 2017-108-11, Page 21 of 23,

‘CATARAQUI REGION CONSERVATION AUTHORITY

"et Poth Road, P.O. Boe 160 Glenturse, Ont KOH 180

Pont) 386-4228 Tol ie (13 weed 1877-956 CRCA

Fane 1315476474. Ema nlo@oreaca

‘Wetstes: wu. & win anwctretagiica
October 26,2017 File: OPmBR/26472017

‘ZBLIBR/26572017

‘Sent by Email
Jonathan Faurschou

Planner I (Senior)
City of Brockville
P.O, Box 5000
Brockville, ON
K6V TAS

a
Received
oct 26 207
PLANNING

Dear Mr. Faurshou:

Re: Application for Official Plan Amendment DO9-09 (City of Brockville)
“Application for Zoning By-law Amendment D14-025 (City of Brockville)
Source Water Protection Amendments
City of Brockville

CRCA staff have reviewed the sbove-noted Official Plan Amendment and Zoning By-law
Amendment forthe Brockville Employment Lands Secondary Plan including Schedule ‘A’ and “B?
of the planning report, proposed Official Plan Schedules 7 and 7B and proposed Zoning By-law
Appendix 3.

We provide the following comments for the consideration of Council, Cty of Brockville staff, and
the City's consultant),

Schedule A

1, Definitions - Please add “Climate Change” to the Ministry of the Environment reference in the
Source Protection Plan definition.

2. Definitions ~ We recommend that definitions for “Highly Vulnerable Aquifer” and “Significant
‘Groundwater Recharge Arce” be added to the Official Plan since these are discussed in proposed
Section 3.6.10 and are also included on Schedule 7B.

3. Definitions ~ We recommend a definition for “Transport Pathway” be added (see comment 10,
below).

4. Section 3.6.10(1.1)() Vulnerable Areas There is a reference to Schedule 7A, however, the
schedules tte i simply “7.

5. Section 3.6.10(1.1)() Vulnerable Areas — For simplification and to accurately reflect
terminology used in the Cataragui Source Protection Plan, we recommend revising the proposed
Schedule titles. For Schedule 7, we recommend: Schedule 7: Source Water Protection Intake
Protection Zones. Alternatively, the IPZ information could be added to Schedule 7B to create a
single schedule (consistent with the proposed zoning by-law Appendix 3). Should the two
schedules be combined, the new schedule could be labeled Schedule 7: Source Water Protection


|
Page 22 of 23

Me Paurshou~ October 26, 2017 (009-09 & D14-025)

Vulnerable Areas. tn either case, we recommend removing the term “sereening area” since this
term doesnot apply.

6. Section 3.6.10(1.11) Drinking Water System Vulnerable Areas ~ Further fo comment 45,
above, we recommend the reference to the tite of Schedule 7 be revised.

17. Section 3.6.10(1.2) Regionally Vulnerable Groundwater Areas — Further to comment #5, we
recommend changes tothe title of Schedule 7B, Should Schedule 7B be retained as separate
schedule from Schedule 7, we recommend revising the tile to: Schedule 7B: Source Water
Protection Regionally Vulnerable Groundwater Areas. Ifthe two schedules are combined, We
recommend: Schedule 7: Source Water Protection Vulnerable Areas. In either case, we
‘recommend removing the term "screening area” since this term does not apply

8, Section 3.6.10(1.2)(i) Highly Vulnerable Aquifers & Significant Groundwater Recharge
‘Areas ~ Significant drinking water threats are not aplicabe in HVAs and SGRAs. We
recommend the tem “significant drinking water threats" be removed from this policy.

9, Section 3.6.10(1.3)() Application and Development Process ~ “Risk Reduction Plan” is not
defined in the proposed Offical Plan amendment. We recommend adding a definition if this term
{is meant to be different from “Risk Management Plan. If the term i intended to mean the same
thing, please revise.

10. Seetion 3.6 ~ We recommend adding a policy for transport pathway reporting.

11; Seetion 53.1(8) Municipal Water and Sewage Services ~ Please revise the reference to

Cataraqui Source Protection Committee's Drinking Water Source Protection Plan” to

*Cataragui Source Protection Plan

12, Schedule 7 sce comment #5

1B. Schedule 7B~ See comment #7.

14, Schedule 7B — The legend item for Highly Vulnerable Aquifer does not nocd to identify the
“high? category since thsi the only category (ie. there is no “moderate” or “low

15, Schedule 7B—It i not necessary to distinguish “high” and “moderate” categories for Significant
Groundwater Recharge Areas on the Official Plan schedule since the proposed Official Plan
polices do not differentiate the Wo.

Schedule B

16, Section 3.45.1 (a and b) Intake Protection Zones ~ Wo recommend changes to the tte of
Appendix 3 for clarity and consistency with terminology used in the CSP. We recommend the
title: Appendix 3: Source Water Protection Vulnerable Areas. We recommend removing the term
“soreening area”

17, Section 3.483 Prohibited Uses ~ The proposed prohibited use text applies erroncously to
Wellhead Protection Areas (which have vulnerability scores of 10 and 8 and do not exist in the
City of Brockville. Please ensure that the corect prohibited uses for Brockville’ IPZ-1 (score of
9) and IPZ-2 (scare of 8.1) ae included inthe proposed zoning by-law amendment.

18, Section 3.45.4 Restrieted Uses It sppears this section is intended as a “Tagging” policy for
uses in areas with alow vulnerability score, in accordance with Section 5.5.1 of the CSPP. Since
only HVAs and SGRAs have vulnerability scores of less than 8, this poliey would only apply to
‘uses in these areas. For simplification, we recommend that the wording “...in areas with
vulnerability score of 8 or less” be revised to: ...in Highly Vulnerable Aquifers and Significant
Groundwater Recharge Areas.”

19, Appendix 3 ~see comment #16,

Page 20f3

Page 23 of 23,

‘Mr. Fausou— October 26, 2017 (009.09 & DI4-025)

20, Appendix 3 ~ Similar to comment #14 and #15, the Appendix does not need to show the
individual HVA and SGRA categories since the proposed zoning text does not speak to the
different categories.

Recommendation
‘Thank you for the opportunity fo review the proposed Official Plan and Zoning By-law
‘Amendments. We recommend that the above items be addressed prior to adoption of these
smendments

Please inform this office in writing of any decisions made by the Cty of Brockville regarding these
applications. If you have any questions, please contact the undersigned at (613) 546-4228 extension .
228, or via e-mail at mdakin(@erea.ca

Yours truly,

ADPA~

Miche! Dakin
Resource Planner

:
.

Page 3063,

