ral Public Meeting
BROCKVILLE Economic Development &

‘GIVOF THE 1000 ISLANDS Plani

Tuesday, September 04, 2018,
COMMITTEE MINUTES Brockville Memorial Centre (Community Hall)

Committee Members:
Councillor M. Kalivas, Chair

Councillor J. Baker

Councillor L. Bursey

Councillor D. LeSueur

Councillor Mayor D. Henderson, Ex-Officio

Other Council Members:
Councillor P. Deery

Stat
D. Dick, Director of Corporate Services

D. Golledge, Administrative Coordinator (Planning)

S. MacDonald, City Clerk

A. McGinnis, Planner II

L. Murray, Deputy City Clerk (Recording Secretary)

R. Nolan, Director of Economic Development

M, Pascoe Merkley, Interim Chief Administrative Officer

‘The Chair called the meeting to order at 6:00 pm
REPORT
2018-095-09
Proposed Amendments to the Official Plan and
Zoning By-Law 050-2014, 550 King Street West (Twin Pad Arena)
Owner: 6865852 Canada Inc. Applicant: City Of Brockville
Moved by: Councillor Baker
THAT Report 2018-095-09 be received as information and that a report on
this matter be prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic
Development Planning Committee (EPD) at a future meeting.

CARRIED

Page 1 of 6

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, September 04, 2018,

Page 2 of 6

Councillor Kalivas announced the procedures for the Public Meeting.

A. McGinnis announced that notice of the Public Meeting was advertised in
the Brockville Recorder and Times newspaper and the Brockville This Week
publication on August 9, 2018 and was circulated to property owners within
120.0 metres (400.0 feét) of the subject property and various Agencies and
Departments. In addition, signs were posted on the subject property
advising that the lands are the subject of an Application for Amendment to
the City of Brockville’s Official Plan and Zoning By-law 050-2014.

Councillor Kalivas, Chair, asked that any person wanting further notice of the
passage of the proposed amendment should give their full name, address, e-
‘mail and postal code to the Secretary prior to leaving the meeting. Councillor
Kalivas identified that "Request for Information Sheets” were located at the
back of the room.

A. McGinnis provided an overview of the proposed amendments to the
official plan and zoning by-law.

Councillor Kalivas asked that anyone speaking in favour of the project should
step forward.

Chris Tucker of 12 Ridgeway Place is in favour of the new ice pads as there
is never any ice available in Brockville.

Mark McGlynn of 40 Ferguson Drive offered that he is heavily involved with
Brockville Minor Hockey and feels that the extra facility will help the cost of
ice fees and be more efficient for families.

Mike Libbos of 40 Sabine Road felt it would be fantastic for the City’s
downtown.

Pat Lampman of 2 Golf Side Lane is in favour of the arenas and would like to
see a walking track included.

Rheal Lascelle of 31 Bennett Street is in favour of the rink but is concerned
over its financing.

Barbara Plunkett of 235 King Street East is in favour and hopes it comes to
fruition, but is worried about the condition of the soil.

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, September 04, 2018,

Kelly Potvin of 149 Reynolds Drive is concerned about the increase in taxes
and wondered what would happen to the other rinks.

Councillor Kalivas replied that the Memorial Centre will remain as is and the
Youth Arena will likely be repurposed as an indoor athletic facility.

Councillor Kalivas asked that anyone opposed to the project should come
forward.

Michael Peer of 35 C Centre Street feels his property value will be negatively
impacted and he does not want the zoning to change.

Robert Millar of 7 Grant Street had questions/concerns regarding the traffic
and the intersection. He wondered if it was an appropriate distance from the
new pedestrian crossing on King Street. R. Millar also wondered where the
overfiow parking for St. Lawrence Park would go.

‘A. McGinnis explained that the traffic study is currently underway.

Susan Merritt of 33 C Centre Street had concerns about the environmental
study

‘A. McGinnis indicated that the study done in 2010 reported that the lands
were appropriately remediated for the land use.

Dennis Coleman of 1305 Borden Crescent offered concerns over the
expense.

Dorothy Healy of 33 A Centre Street felt there was nothing in the project for
seniors.

Ray Linesman of 4509 Kilkenny Road, Elizabethtown has been a part of the
men's hockey league for a number of years. He stated they need more ice
time at better rates.

The meeting adjourned at 6:35 pm.

Page 3 of 6

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, September 04, 2018,

Page 4 of 6

2018-096-09
Proposed Amendments to the Official Plan and

Zoning By-Law 050-2014

550 King Street West (Upper Canada District School Board)
Owner: 6865852 Canada Inc.

Agent: WSP Group Ltd., Nadia Di Santi for UCDSB

Moved by: Councillor Bursey

THAT Report 2018-096-09 be received as information and that a report on
this matter be prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic
Development Planning Committee (EPD) at a future meeting.

CARRIED

A. McGinnis announced that notice of the Public Meeting was advertised in
the Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper and the Brockville This Week
publication on August 9, 2018 and was circulated to property Owners within
120.0 metres (400.0 feet) of the subject property and various Agencies and
Departments. In addition, signs were posted on the subject property
advising that the lands are the subject of an Application for Amendment to
the City of Brockville’s Official Plan and Zoning By-law 050-2014,

Councillor Kalivas, Chair, asked that any person wanting further notice of the
passage of the proposed amendment should give their full name, address, e-
mail and postal code to the Secretary prior to leaving the meeting. Councillor
Kalivas identified that "Request for Information Sheets” were located at the
back of the room.

Councillor Kalivas reviewed the procedures for the Public Meeting.

‘A. McGinnis provided an overview of the proposed amendments to the
official plan and zoning by-law.

Nadia Di Santi of WSP Group Ltd representing the school board offered thelr
planning rationale.

‘There were several parents in attendance that welcomed the idea of the new
school as their children currently attend Commonwealth School which is next
to the extensive construction site at the Brockville General Hospital.

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, September 04, 2018,

Page 5 of 6

Earl McCallister of 9 Malloch Court wondered if the Brock Trail would be
connected.

Gord Aimer of 553 King Street West asked if the site was too small for the
school and this Is what was hindering the buffering of the Centre Street
yards,

N. Di Santi responded that the lot size is almost double the size require to
host the school. She added that the details regarding the buffering of the
Centre Street yards has not yet been confirmed, she indicated that this will
happen through the site plan.

‘A. McGinnis indicated that a ten foot buffering, like planting strips, is a
requirement through the site plan.

Jeremy Hobbs and Peter Bosch from the Upper Canada District School Board
were present and offered that the closest point to the backyards on Centre
Street will be 45 metres. J. Hobbs stated that they want to be the best
neighbours possible.

Lee Walz of 8 Susanna Lane wondered if there would be lights on the playing
field and any entrance off Centre Street. P. Bosch replied that there would
be no lighting on the field and no intended entrance off Centre Street.

Margaret Baker of 154 Pearl Street West was in support of both projects.

Robert Harper of 18 Westview Place asked if the school was getting built
regardless of whether the rink gets approved.

J. Hobbs responded that yes the school is getting built even if the ice pads
do not.

Victor Limbeek of 504 King Street West felt the condition of the sidewalks in
the area must be addressed as there will be many more pedestrians in the
area when these facilities are completed.

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, September 04, 2018,

Councillor Kalivas asked that anyone opposed to the project should come
forward.

John McCrea of RR# 2, Spencerville indicated he is a Candidate for Public
School Trustee and feels the Mega schools do not offer an education
comparable to the smaller scale schools.

Norie Spence who indicated she was John’s wife echoed his concerns.

The meeting adjourned at 7:40 pm.

Page 6 of 6

