a Public Meeting

sees Economic Development &
vor [eo scaNDE Planning Committee
Tuesday, Apri 01, 2014, 6:00 pm

COMMITTEE MINUTES City Hall, Council Chambers

‘Committee Members:
Councilor M. Kalivas, Acting Chair
Councillor D. Beatty

Councillor D. LeSueur

Councillor Mayor D. Henderson, Ex-Otticio

Regrets:
Councilor M. McFall
Others:

Councilor T. Blanchard
Staff:

Mr. J. Faurschou, Planner |
Mr. A. McGinnis, Planner

Ms. M. Pascoe Merkley, Director of Planning
Ms. S. Seale, City Clerk (Recording Secretary)

‘The Chair called the meeting to order at 6:01 p.m.
ie

1. 2014-040-04
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-law 194-94
Lot 28, Part of Lot 29, Block A, Plan 214
Gity of Brockville
‘Owner: Nathan Richard
File: 014-173

Moved by: Councillor Beatty
‘THAT Report 2014-040-04 be received as information and that a report on this matter
be prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic Development Planning
Committee at a future meeting.

CARRIED

Page 1 of 3

Economic Development and Planning Committee Public Planning Meeting
Tuesday, April 01, 2014

Mr. A. McGinnis, Planner Il, announced that the Notice of Public Meeting respecting the
application for Zoning By-law Amendment was advertised in the Brockville Recorder
and Times Newspaper on February 27, 2014 and was circulated to property owners
with 120.0 metres (400.0 ft) of the subject property. In addition, a sign was posted on
the subject property advising that the lands are the subject of an Application for
Amendment to the City of Brockville Zoning By-law 194-94,

Councilor Kalivas, Acting Chair, asked that any person wanting further notice of the
passage of the proposed amendment should give their fullname, address and postal
code to the Secretary prior to leaving the meeting,

Councilor Kalivas reviewed the procedures for the Public Meeting,
Mr. McGinnis provided a summary of the application.

Mr. Richard, Applicant, spoke to the application. He explained that the type of homes
that are selling within Brockville and semi-detached more so than single residential
homes. Itis an infill project so no new/extended services are required. He explained that
the initial design includes more off street parking than most homes to address the
concerns raised by the neighbours.

Mrs. Laurie Richard spoke in favour of the application.

Mr. Jim Baxter noted his opposition to the application. He indicated that he had made a
written submission.

Mr. Jay Terrill also spoke in opposition to the application. He spoke to Mr. Richards
‘comments regarding infling. He indicated that the lot had already been severed once.
He noted that the semi-detached sales that Mr. Richards referenced are bungalows and
not three story homes.

Mr. Ken Sine spoke in opposition and provided a written submission. He noted that he is
concerned with parking on the street.

Mrs. Donna Burrows spoke in opposition of the application to change fram single family
residential to semi-detached.

Mr. Russ Gaskin noted his opposition to the application. He indicated that he supports
single family units.

Mr. Tim Froats noted his opposition to the application.

Page 2013

Economic Development and Planning Committee Public Planning Meeting
Tuesday, April 01, 2014

Mr. Richard addressed some of the concerns raised. He reiterated that there are many
bungalows selling within the City but this would offer a variety to the neighbourhood. He
noted the new developments which included semi-detached homes.

Mrs. Carol Billings spoke with regard to the traffic and the potential cars parking on the
street.

Mrs. Gail Walsh commented that the rustic lot their family owns is not planned for
development and many children play there.

Mrs. Elizabeth Thorpe concerned that lot is too small for a semi-detached home.
Mrs Richard indicated that the setbacks meet or exceed the setback requirements.
Mrs. Mary Jane Froats concerned that semi-detached would be very boxy on this small
lot

‘The meeting adjourned at 6:36 pm.

The Request for Information sheets are on file in the Clerk's Office.

Page 3.013

