[a

Public Meeting

BROCKVILLE Economic Development &

Committee Members:
Councillor D. LeSueur, Chair

Councillor J. Baker

Councillor M. Kalivas

Councillor Mayor D. Henderson, Ex-Officio

Absent:
Councillor J. Earle

Stat
B. Casselman, City Manager

D. Dick, Director of Corporate Services

J. Faurschou, Planner I

S. MacDonald, City Clerk

A. McGinnis, Planner II

L. Murray, Deputy City Clerk (Recording Secretary)
P. Raabe, Director of Environmental Services

L. White, Manager of Strategic Initiatives

‘The Chair called the meeting to order at 6:00 pm.
ITEM

1. 2017-048-05

Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014,
Part Lot 15, Concession 2, Stewart Blvd., Brockville,

Owner: Brockmoor Development Corp. Ltd.

Moved by: Councillor Baker

THAT Report 2017-048-05 be received as information and that a report on
this matter be prepared by Staff for consideration of the Economic

Development Planning Committee at a future

Page 1 of 17

meeting.

CARRIED

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, May 02, 2017

Councillor LeSueur, Chair, introduced the Public Meeting and read from the
prepared required comments.

‘A. McGinnis announced that Notice of the Public Meeting was advertised in
the Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper on April 6, 2017 and was
circulated to property Owners within 120.0 metres (400.0 feet) of the
subject property and various Agencies and Departments. In addition, signs
were posted on the subject property advising that the lands are the subject
of an Application for Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-
2014.

Councillor LeSueur, Chair, asked that any person wanting further Notice of
the passage of the proposed amendment should give their full name,
address, e-mail and postal code to the Secretary prior to leaving the
meeting. Councillor LeSueur identified that "Request for Information Sheets”
were located at the back of the room.

Councillor LeSueur reviewed the procedures for the Public Meeting.
‘A. McGinnis provided an overview of the proposed zoning amendment.

Councillor LeSueur asked if they plan to operate 24 hours a day, 7 days a
week. Adam Thompson who is the Agent for the Owner replied that the gas.
station will be open all the time but the car wash may operate on reduced
hours.

Marilyn Salmon of 28 Wilmot Young Place disagreed with this type of
operation moving into her back yard. She asked how far the buildings will be
from her back yard. She felt that it would be noisy and the lights would
invade her privacy. Leo Palozzi who is the developer for the lands (Sunray
Group) indicated that there are no plans for the balance of the lands and
estimated the buildings would be about 30 metres from the lot lines of the
Wilmot Young Place homes. He added that they would have no problem
doing a photometric study to analyze light spillage. He also suggested that
the lighting would be oriented so that it faces downward to contain it to the
site and be in keeping with dark sky provisions.

Pat Donovan of 26 Wilmot Young Place is not in favour of the car wash as

she thinks it will produce stagnant pools of water and breeding grounds for
mosquitos.

Page 2 of 17

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, May 02, 2017

Leo Palozzi replied that the carwash uses municipal water and that the
excess/used will be filtered and directed into the municipal sanitary sewer
sytem. He added that they import their regulations from the conservation
authorities. Leo Palozzi indicated that the conservation authority supports
this application and they have no concerns.

Justine Lawson of 24 Wilmot Young Place is against this use and feels that
the trucks when offloading fuel will produce fumes that will blow into their
yards and spillage that will contaminate the groundwater.

Leo Palozzi explained that when the fuel is delivered the offloading process is
vacuum sealed so there is no spillage or vapour leakage.

‘The meeting adjourned at 6:32 pm.

The Request for Information Sheets are on file in the Clerk’s Office.

‘The Chair called the meeting to order at 6:33 pm.

2.

Page 3 of 17

2017-049-05
Proposed Amendments to the Official Plan

and Zoning By-law 050-2014, Part of Block 54,
Plan 67, City of Brockville,

Parkland Between Havelock Street

and Schofield Avenue and Strowger Boulevard,
Owner: City of Brockville

Applicant: Habitat for Humanity

Moved by: Councillor Kalivas
THAT Report 2017-049-05 be received as information and that a report on
this matter be prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic
Development Planning Committee at a future meeting.

CARRIED

Councillor LeSueur, Chair, introduced the Public Meeting and read from the
prepared required comments.

‘A. McGinnis announced that Notice of the Public Meeting was advertised in
the Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper on April 6, 2017 and was

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, May 02, 2017

circulated to property Owners within 120.0 metres (400.0 feet) of the
subject property and various Agencies and Departments. In addition, signs
were posted on the subject property advising that the lands are the subject
of an Application for Amendment to the City of Brockville’s Official Plan and
Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014,

Councillor LeSueur, Chair, asked that any person wanting further Notice of
the passage of the proposed amendment should give their full name,
address, e-mail and postal code to the Secretary prior to leaving the
meeting. Councillor LeSueur identified that "Request for Information Sheets”
were located at the back of the room.

Councillor LeSueur reviewed the procedures for the Public Meeting.

‘A. McGinnis provided an overview of the proposed amendment to the Official
Plan and amendment to the Zoning By-law

Councillor LeSueur asked who will be paying for the servicing of the lots.
A. McGinnis replied that it is his understanding that this is a cost to the
applicant.

Dave Annable of Annable Designs who is the Agent for the application
offered details about the plans for two single detached dwellings.

No persons were in attendance at the meeting to speak against the
application.

‘The meeting adjourned at 6:46 pm.

‘No person completed the Request for Information form.

‘The Chair called the meeting to order at 6:47 pm.

3.

Page 4 of 17

2017-050-05
Proposed Amendment to the Official Plan

and Amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014,

Draft Secondary Plan for the Brockville

Employment Lands (Parkedale Avenue West,

Stewart Boulevard and Victoria Road), City of Brockville

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, May 02, 2017

Page 5 of 17

Moved by: Councillor Baker

THAT Report 2017-050-05 be received as information and that a report on
this matter be prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic
Development Planning Committee at a future meeting.

CARRIED

Councillor LeSueur, Chair, introduced the Public Meeting and read from the
prepared required comments.

J. Faurschou announced that Notice of the Public Meeting was advertised in
the Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper on April 6, 2017 and was
circulated to property Owners within 120.0 metres (400.0 feet) of the
subject property. Notice was sent to various Agencies and Departments.
Also a Public Open House was advertised and held on April 5, 2017 at the
Brockville Memorial Centre. Signs were posted on the subject property
advising that the lands are the subject of an Application for Amendment to
the City of Brockville’s Official Plan and Amendment to Zoning By-law 050-
2014. E-mails were sent to those who had previously expressed interest in
receiving additional information, reports and notice of meetings. Letters
were hand delivered to local addresses and mailed to those with out of town
addresses, for those parties who had previously expressed interest in
receiving additional information, reports and notice of meetings but who
failed to provide an e-mail address,

Councillor LeSueur, Chair, asked that any person wanting further Notice of
the passage of the proposed amendment should give their full name,
address, e-mail and postal code to the Secretary prior to leaving the
meeting. Councillor LeSueur identified that "Request for Information Sheets”
were located at the back of the room.

Councillor LeSueur reviewed the procedures for the Public Meeting.

J. Faurschou provided an introduction to the report and then introduced
Greg Bender from the MMM Group who provided a visual presentation
addressing the background and overview of the Brockville Employment
Lands and the proposed amendments. J. Faurschou completed the
Introduction of the Matter before the EDP Committee.

Councillor LeSueur stated that they will hear all the questions first then Greg
Bender will respond to them alll at once.

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, May 02, 2017

Page 6 of 17

Greg Bender offered to respond to as many questions as possible, but did
not want to detract from the Planning Departments process of responding in
a formal manner.

Emily Snowden of 3126 Parkedale Avenue explained that she had just
bought this house on Parkedale and wondered if there would an increase in
traffic. She also asked about special habitat lands behind her property.
Jonathan Faurschou noted that the Clerk does not record the meeting
minutes verbatim and as such to ensure accuracy, asked her to submit
something formal in writing to his office so they can keep track of enquiries,
and he will respond to her in writing.

Garth McGill of 3162 Parkedale Avenue introduced Mr. Michael Wright of
Wright Consulting Services who will speak on behalf of “Citizens for Progress
without Hardship” (CPH). Michael Wright circulated and reviewed a “Planning
Statement” he authored. Some points Michael singled out were the buffer
area from the landfill, status of the landfill, development of lands abutting
the Trans Northern Pipeline, the golf course being deemed “Future
Employment”, MOECC concerns/issues, whether the MMAH was circulated
and if so the status of MMAH comments, inconsistencies in numbers in
background reports, inconsistencies with OP polices.

Garth McGill of 3162 Parkedale Avenue read from a prepared comment
sheet, a copy of which was provided to the Clerk.

Rani Tolton of 2525 Victoria Road submitted a petition containing 138
signatures. She wondered if the buffer around the landfill had been officially
reduced from 500m to 30m by the MOECC? R. Tolton asked if the
hydrogeological study was complete and if not, why not. R. Tolton
questioned the validity of the traffic study and various numbers and
calculations used in the background studies. R. Tolton gave an opinion on
the City decision in the past to use a “pristine” creek and wetland for a
landfill and her opinion that the City has been aware of issues associated
with the former landfill site. R. Tolton questioned why Council is even
considering use of the lands for development. R. Tolton suggested lack of
clarity in the process and suggested there was potential pecuniary interest
for individuals in seeing the process completed.

‘Anne Clapperton of 110 Victoria Road asked why the Brockville Employment
Lands have been proposed for the west side of the City. She suggested
generally industrial areas are located on the east side of cities as normal
winds go from the west to the east. She asked if lands which were located in
the Township of Elizabethtown-Kitley were considered for the development.

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, May 02, 2017

Page 7 of 17

She also asked what public consultation will take place when it comes time
to actually develop the lands.

In response to Mr. Wright, Greg Bender explained that the golf course lands
are being brought into the urban boundary. Mr. Bender explained that
although the Official Plan identified the golf course lands as protected for
future employment, it does not mean that they are being looked at for
development right now. An Official Plan has a horizon of 20 years.

Greg Bender explained that the City has received correspondence from the
MOECC supporting reduction of the buffer to 30 m but no final decisions
have been made. He confirmed that Trans Canada Pipelines do require
setbacks from their infrastructure and they are a stakeholder. He believes
the City may have received their comments.

Greg Bender said the site would have to be development-ready and a
groundwater study done, but it is up to the City as to when that would be
done. He deferred the balance of the questions to City staff in order that
they may deal with them in a formal manner.

In regard to the use of projections, Greg Bender stated that projections rely
on the data available at the time the projections were undertaken. He has
yet to see projections that are 100% accurate. He added that they are to be
used as a guide and they need to updated as studies are undertaken and
Official Plans are updated. Greg Bender stated that they would review the
numbers in the background studies to ensure they are consistent.

Jonathan asked that anyone with concerns or questions submit them in
writing to the Planning department to ensure accuracy and so that they may
be properly reviewed.

Councillor Baker spoke about the environmentally protected lands and stated
that at this time the City is not allowed to develop those lands, but should
that ever change he would be in favour of developing those lands. Councillor
Baker provided the background and history on the purchase of the Mitchell
house and land. Councillor Baker identified the lack of large lot vacant land
within the City limits and explained that as Brockville has a limited land
area, infill is the path which is left for new development. The current public
process is the way for the City to maximize the usable land in the City

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, May 02, 2017

Page 8 of 17

Mel McKay of 3118 Parkedale Avenue stated that they had bought their
home 16 years ago as a future place to live out their retirement, now they
could potentially have industry in front and behind thelr home.

Councillor LeSueur, Chair, reminded those present that any person wanting
further Notice of the passage of the proposed amendment should give their
full name, address, e-mail and postal code to the Secretary prior to leaving
the meeting. Councillor LeSueur identified that "Request for Information
Sheets” were located at the back of the room.

‘The meeting adjourned at 7:57 pm.

The Request for Information Sheets are on file in the Clerk’s Office.

Planning Statement Of
Wright Consulting Services
As Authored By:

Michael Wright
Principal Planner

Prepared for:

Citizens for Progress without Hardship
Brockville Ontario

May 2, 2017

Page 9 of 17


Page 10 of 17

Table of Contents

1. Project Overview

2. Review of Affected Land Use Documents
‘And Compliance Issues

3. Professional Opinion

Pages

Section 1.0 Project Overview

‘The City undertook a study entitled “Employment Lands Review” which identified
a need for employment land, particularly large parcels of land. To implement this
study, a Secondary Plan was undertaken for lands in the City’s northwest
quadrant.

It was noted that this area was the last remaining developable land which could
accommodate large-scale development.

Section 2.0 Review of Affected Land Use Documents and Compliance Issues,
2.1 Provincial Policy Statement (2014)

Section 1.3.1 of the PPS asks that the City promote economic development by
“providing opportunities for a diversified economic base and maintaining a range
of suitable sites for employment uses which support a wide range of economic
activities and ancillary uses” (1.3.1 (b)]. In this instance, a portion of the subject
lands is being designated as General Employment.

2.2 The Planning Act

Section 35) of the Planning Act (Appendix 3) asks that a decision of Council shall
be consistent with the policy statements issued under subsection (1). In this
respect, Council is to embrace the policy of its Official Plan regarding planning
‘matters, and in this instance, introduce Section 4.7.4.4 — Northwest Employment
‘Area to Section 4.7.4 ~ Site Specific Policy Area,

23° City of Brockville Official Plan

The Official Plan does not designate the subject site as Employment Area as
depicted on Schedule ‘8’ of the Official Plan. An Amendment to the Official Plan is
required to allow a wide range of land uses dedicated light industrial uses,
ancillary retail and commercial uses and accessory uses directly related to the
permitted uses. The Official Plan through the adopted and approved official plan
amendment will provide direction in determining the zoning by-law which will
describe the Employment Area to be created.

3

Page 11 of 17

The Employment Land Review discussed features such as the golf course, the
City’s former waste disposal site, the presence of the Trans Northern Pipeline
route and a substantially vegetated site as an attribute for future development.

Several studies were undertaken to support the proposal that a secondary plan be
Prepared to identify those areas to be designated as General Employment in the
Secondary Plan and subsequently zoned as such in a zoning by-law amendment.

Review of the reports, subsequent correspondence by the affected agencies and
the secondary plan and zoning by-law amendment raise the following
observations:

1. The City’s zoning by-law (3.48) states that no development or
redevelopment occur on a lot abutting the pipeline without the written
consent of Trans-Canada. This may require a setback from the pipeline. No
such consent to the knowledge of the writer has been obtained.

2. The presence of the landfill site and the ECA Certificate asks that a 500m
buffer be in place. MOECC Guideline D-4 discusses this matter in greater
detail and states that the Certificate has not been amended to reduce the
setback to 30 metres.

3. The statement “access to Highway No. 401” is misleading in that no such
access is available to the proposed employment area.

4. It is understood that 37 acres or thereabouts have been described
“endangered species habitat”, would be removed from the developable
area.

5. An additional 47 acres or thereabouts have been classed as
environmentally sensitive, again reducing the developable area.

6. The golf course has been deemed “Future Employment” ~ is this feasible?

2.4. City of Brockville Zoning By-law No. 050-2014

To implement the Secondary Plan, an amendment to the City’s zoning by-law is
necessary. A review of the proposed zoning by-law amendment found
inconsistencies as to the designation (Park and Open Space Area) and the
implementing zoning by-law amendment (Environmental Protection).

Page 12 of 17

It is suggested that the “Park and Open Space” designation implies a significantly
different use from the Environmental Protection zone found in the zoning by-law.

3.0 Professional Opinion

Having visited the site and the surrounding properties as well as reviewing the
abovementioned studies and Site Plan, the writer undertook to review the various
land use documents to determine if the proposal met and satisfied the policy
contained therein.

To summarize, it is necessary that several agencies such as CRCA, MOECC and
MINR need to be satisfied that the proposal meets their policy, guidelines and
legislation. This is directed to the environmentally sensitive areas, endangered
species habitat, the landfill buffer area and reduction(?) and surface groundwater
issues.

The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Housing should submit their comments on
the proposed amendments and their compliance with provincial policy (PPS
2014)

‘Why was there no examination as to expansion in the north-east quadrant?

A review should be undertaken to ensure that the policy and land designations
are consistent with what is proposed in the implementing zoning by-law
amendment.

Should abutting uses such as the golf course be considered for future
development if such is not to happen soon or not at all?

It should be noted that the City of Ottawa undertook an employment lands
review as to the existing situation. It was felt that there was a surplus of such
lands within the environs of the City. The outcome was that the employment
‘market has changed in eastern Ontario and that large parcels of land within some
of the industrial parks was considered surplus and, therefore removed,

Page 18 of 17

Thus, it is the writer’s opinion that the proposal does not meets the tests and :
policy found in the City of Brockville’s land use documents (official plan and
zoning by-law) and should not be be approved as submitted.

Respectfully Submitted
Per: |
WRIGHY CONSULTING SERVICES

Principal Planner

Page 14 of 17

G. Michael Wright

‘CURRICULUM VITAE

epucaTion: MeMaster University, B.A. (Hons), Geography, 1970
University of Ottawa, Graduate Studies (Geography), 1974

PROFESSIONAL

QUALIFICATIONS: Eligibility for Membership in the Canadian Institut of Planners

PROFESSIONAL

EXPERIENCE:

200070 2107 ‘Wright Consulting Services

President and Principal Planner

Principal Planner involved in the development of private sector projects such as residential
subdivisions, commercial sites residential nfl projects and industrial re-use projects (HABUs);
Project Planner responsible forthe preparation and submission of technical information for
approval of lanfil sites for private sector clientele;

Project Director for site plans and approval of aggregate licenses for private sector clientele;
Expert Witness at provincial tribunals on behalf of public and private sector clientele on matters
such as aggregate licenses, landfill ses, offical plan policy, zoning bylaws, residential
subdivisions, residential infil projects and appeals from Committee of Adjustment and Land
Division Committee and Council decisions on behalf of pubic and private sector clientele;
Principal Planner responsible for the acquisition of land use permits from Crown agencies for
private sector clientele,

1996 to 1999 ‘Curnming Cockburn Limited [row 18),

1991 to 1996 ‘Curmming Cockburn Umited [now

Page 15 of 17

Director of Panning (Ottawa)

Senior Planner (Ottawa)

Project Director responsible fr the co-ordination of municipal planning programmes involving
the review and approval of subdivision, business parks, industrial parks and commercial
development on behalf of municipal clientele;

Project Co-Ordinator responsible fr the preparation and subr
and planning reports for municipal andl ites;

Expert Witness at provincial tribunals in behalf of public and private sector clientele on urban and
‘ural planning isues such as country ot subdivisions, landfil sites, pits and quarries licenses,
HABUS sites, land assembly sits, official plans, secondary pans, zoning by-laws and appeals from
Committee of Austment, County Land Division Committe and Council decisions;

Project Planner for te preparation of municipal land use planning documents inclusive of official
plans, secondary plans, zoning by-laws, site plan agreements, development charges and general
advisory services to municipal Councils and Committees.

ion of technical documentation


1987 to 1991 6. M. Wright & Associates Limited
President and Principal Planner

‘© Principal Planner involved inthe co-ordination of municipal planning programmes on behalf of
municipal clientele;

‘+ Project Planner involved in the preparation of official plans, zoning by-laws, secondary plans,
subdivision and site plan agreements, development charges by-laws and housing policy
statements for municipal clientele;

'+ Project Planner involved in the design, submission and approval of country lot subdivisions for .
private sector clientele in Eastern Ontario; .

‘© Expert Witness at provincial tribunals on behalf of private and public sector clientele regarding :
‘url planning issues such as official plan, zoning by-laws, pits and quarries licenses, landfill sites,
among others;

1981 to 1987 \W.D. Buchanan Limited
Senior Planner

‘+ Project Planner responsible for processing of residential, commercial and industrial projects on
behalf of private sector clientele in Eastern Ontario;

‘+ Project Planner responsible for the preparation of municipal land use planning documents
Inclusive of offical plans, zoning by-law, site plan and subdivision agreements and housing policy

statements;
+ Proect Planer to provide land use planing advisory series to pubic and private sector |
etek
+ Expert Witness at provincial tribunals on land se planing ses for publc and priate sector
client |
1900%0 1961 ——_G.M. Wright, Planing Constant (Ottawa) |
© Project Planner for northern native community development plans in Northern Ontario and |
Northwest Terrie
1974101979 1.4 chard & Associates Limited
Senior Planner

‘+ Project Planner involved in the municipal and federal land use planning projectsin Eastern Ontario
and Northwest Territories.

197001972 Environment Canada

‘Project Planner involved in river basin land use planning projects and oil and gas development
throughout Western Canada and the Northwest Territories

Page 16 of 17

Presentation EDP ~ May 2, 2017
Back in September 2015 in front of a group of adjacent industrial park property owners, Mayor
Henderson stated “Ifthe city does a good job of mitigation” then loss of property values should not
bbe an issue” and “the process will identify the items and determine most cost effective mitigation’
{for items of concern - noise abatement (similar to those along 401), berms and tree barriers.

‘At the same meeting the City manager said in response to “Are you going to provide City water if
something happens to the wells/septic systems as a result of the business park", with “if something
should happen the City would have to assess its level of lability”.

From the proposed draft by-law and Official Plan amendments we now learn reality! Words and
actions don’t always match. The end result: means residents living around the north-west industrial
park will not have noise abatement, berms or buffer areas adjacent to their back yards. It seems the
City has abandoned their words of assurances in favour of maximizing space leaving residents exposed
to the hardships of many things such as parking lots with idling diesel trucks/reefer refrigeration units
‘and back up beepers or stacks of outside storage right next to their back yards. There is no transitional
zones, no buffers, no mitigation to protect property values.

‘As well the amendments allows the City to skip out of any requirements to conduct groundwater
testing to access the risks to local residents who rely on domestic wells
‘The Mayor's statement “ifthe City does a good job of mitigation” .has a very hollow ring

From City resident’s perspective there is a very dangerous precedent being set here. Anyone close to
‘any open vacant former commercial or industrial land could end up with the same disregard of citizens
rights. Good planning insures transition zones between residential areas/industrial zones. These
proposed amendments automaticaly puts industry and residents at odds.

“t's the right thing, but in the wrong place”, was my observation some 20 months past when hearing.
of the pending industrial park in the north-west quadrant. Now that prognosis seems to be ringing,
true, afew of the outstanding items:

‘© some 47 acres classed as undevelopable and % milion dollars + wasted and,

‘+ phase 3 (8 acres) on Parkedale is isolated and extremely costly to service (1 million?) and,

‘© cost unknown to replace habitat of some 37 acres classed as endangered species habitat and,

‘© incomplete financial forecasting to support financial viability.

‘ur municipality has little to show for its $2.4 milion Invested thus far. How did this happen one
‘might ask? One simple answer might be found in of one of the requirements from the MMM Group
Dec 2016, Secondary Report which says the City is required to demonstrate “the land is physically
sultable for expansion when considering hazard lands and natural heritage”. With respect to this
question recently Mr. Greg Bender MMM consultant was asked: how much of the area had he walked
over, the answer was ZERO!

Now - if one concludes that most if not al senior City staf are also at the ZERO level of site suitability

investigation the present situation becomes understandable. Site selection on the basis of
drive past analysis can be misleading and unreliable.

Page 17 of 17


