Page 1 of 23,

Economic Development and

Planning Committee
Tuesday, September 4, 2018, 4:00 pm
Brockuille Memorial Centre, Community Hall

Committee Members Areas of Responsibility

Councillor M. Kalivas, Economic Development| Museurn Board
Chair Planning Ubrary Board
Councillor J. Baker Chamber of Commerce Arts Centre
Councillor L. Bursey DBIA Tourism
Councillor D. LeSueur Heritage Brockville
Mayor D. Henderson, Economic Development
Ex-Officio Advisory Team.

Page COMMITTEE AGENDA

Disclosure of Interest
Delegations and Presentations

1. Amendments to SPCA for Bridlewood Manor
John Bonser

J. Bonser will address the committee regarding concerns with the
recent amendment to the Site Plan Control Agreement for
Bridlewood Manor.

J. Dickie and E, LeClair will also be in attendance regarding this
matter.

Correspondence
Nil.

Reports from Boards and Committees
Nil.

13-17

Page 2 of 23

Economic Development and Planning Committee
September 4, 2018

Staff Reports

1. 2018-094-09
EXTENSION OF DRAFT PLAN APPROVAL PART OF LOT 11,
CONCESSION 2
ROCKFORD FOREST SUBDIVISION
OWNER: CATHEDRAL ENTERPRISES LTD.

AGENT: MATTHEW EYRE
FILE: 08T-14501

THAT Council for the Corporation of the City of Brockville, grants an
‘extension to draft approval of the Rockford Forest Subdivision,
being described as Part of Lot 11, Conc. 2, City of Brockville, County
of Leeds, to 15 October 2021.

Unfinished Business

1. 2018-021-03
Municipal Accommodation Tax Allocation

The following resolution was passed at the Economic Development
and Planning Committee meeting of March 6, 2018:

Moved by: Councillor LeSueur
THAT the decision regarding the allocation of the Municipal

Accommodation Tax be referred to the Economic Development and

Planning meeting in June.
CARRIED

New Business - Reports from Members of Council

Live Streaming of Council and Committee Meetings
(Councillor Bursey)

Whereas our local media's full resources are limited, and can often
create or nurture misinformation;

Whereas other municipalities across Ontario and beyond are
currently facing similar challenges with how to best articulate their
messages, and craft effective means of sharing legislation and data;

Page 8 of 23,

Economic Development and Planning Committee
September 4, 2018

And whereas cost effective technology exists which can help this
corporation to better share and stream proceedings utilizing a user
friendly medium;

Therefore be it resolved that the council of the Corporation of the
City of Brockville direct staff to provide options with the direct
intention of implementing the most current and cost effective
Internet filming and streaming technology to assist our local media
in providing coverage of council and committee meetings happening
in this chamber.

Tiny Homes
(Councillor Bursey)

Whereas Tiny Homes have proven to be an economical,
environmentally sustainable and easily constructed housing formula
by way of lowering building and purchasing costs, and reducing
carbon footprints by reducing housing sizes;

Whereas no current procedural bylaw exists under the Official Plan
or Planning Act for the City of Brockville;

Whereas Tiny Homes would assist private sector developers and the
City of Brockville planning staff in delivering affordable housing and
affordable home ownership options for our citizens, which was
committed to as part of the 20 Year Official Plan for the City of
Brockville;

Whereas the Province of Ontario has recently modernized official
plan bylaws to include granny suites and garden suites, creating
new opportunities for municipalities to work around square footage
zoning restrictions to provide new housing builds;

And whereas our community would take a proactive and progressive
step towards potentially modernizing our housing stock by being
one of the first municipalities in Ontario to create a new zoning
bylaw to incorporate Tiny Homes;

Therefore be it resolved that we direct our planning staff to draft
options for us to consider as the Corporation of the City of
Brockville, with the intention of adopting an overall Tiny Homes
zoning bylaw option, which would require an amendment to our
official plan and planning act, which would include a public meeting

Page 4 of 23,

Economic Development and Planning Committee
September 4, 2018

regarding the proposed zoning amendment.

18-20 National Housing Strategy Review
(Councillor Bursey)
THAT the National housing Strategy Review report as prepared by
Councillor Bursey be received for information purposes.

21-23 AMO Conference Review

(Councillor Bursey)

THAT the AMO 2018 Conference Review report as prepared by
Councillor Bursey be received for information purposes.

Media Question Period
Consent Agenda
Adjournment

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee adjourned its
‘meeting until the next regular meeting scheduled for October 2, 2018

Page 5 of 23,

22August2018
REPORT TO THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE
04 SEPTEMBER 2018

2018-094-09
EXTENSION OF DRAFT PLAN APPROVAL D.pIcK
PART of Lot 11, CONCESSION 2 DIRECTOR OF PLANNING (Acting)
ROCKFORD FOREST SUBDIVISION ANDREW MCGINNIS
OWNER: CATHEDRAL ENTERPRISES LTD. PLANNER I
AGENT: MATTHEW EYRE.

FILE: 08T-14501

RECOMMENDATION:

THAT Council for the Corporation of the City of Brockville, grants an extension to draft
approval of the Rockford Forest Subdivision, being described as Part of Lot 11, Conc. 2,
City of Brockville, County of Leeds, to 15 October 2021.

PURPOSE:

‘The purpose of this reports to make recommendation respecting a requested extension of
the date for which the Draft Plan Approval was granted for construction of the Rockford
Forest Subdivision

ORIGIN:

At its meeting of 09 July 2015, Council for the Corporation ofthe City of Brockville granted
approval to the Draft Plan of Subdivision for Part of Lot 11, Concession 2, City of
Brockville, County of Leeds, subject to conditions. A location plan has been attached as
‘Schedule “A” to this report.

Condition No. 10 vii) of the draft approval states that, “if final approval of the Plan is not
granted within three (3) years of the date of approval ofthe Draft Plan, and no extensions
have been granted, Draft Plan approval shall lapse in accordance with Section 51(32) of
the Planning Act, R.S.O. 1990, c.P. 13. Itis the sole responsibilty of the Owner to make
application for extension of Draft Approval’.

Mr. Matthew Eyre, acting as Agent for Cathedral Enterprises Ltd., Owner of the subject
lands described as Part of Lot 11, Cone. 2, City of Brockville, County of Leeds, has
requested extension of Draft Plan Approval for Rockford Forest Subdivision. The letter of
request has been attached as Schedule “B" to this report. Schedule “C” to this reports
plan of the Rockford Forest Subdivision.


Page 6 of 23,

2018-04-08 Page 2
EXTENSION OF DRAFT PLAN APPROVAL.

PART Of LOT 11, CONCESSION 2

ROCKFORD FOREST SUBDIVISION

OWNER: CATHEDRAL ENTERPRISES LTD.

AGENT: MATTHEW EYRE

FILE: os-14801

ANALYSIS:

‘The Planning Department has been working with the Owner respecting outstanding issues
regarding a new plan of subdivision for Part of Lot 11, Concession 2, City of Brockville. AS
noted in Mr. Eyre’s letter, discussions and issues with the Ontario Municipal Board and the
Ministry of Natural Resources have been ongoing and are now resolved.

In addition, other conditions imposed at the request of City Departments still require action
and completion.

Based on the above, it is the recommendation of the Planning Department that an
‘additional three (3) year extension until 15 October 2021 be granted to the Draft Approval
that was first given on 09 July 2015 and approved by the Ontario Municipal Board 15
October 2015, to allow the applicant time to finalize conditions of Draft Approval. These
‘conditions are attached to this report as Schedule “D".

FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS:

All costs associated with the preparation and registration of documentation necessary for
final approval and registration of the proposed Plan of Subdivision are the responsibility of
the owner. Specific financial matters are to be confirmed in the Subdivision Agreement
(ie. cost sharing, posting of financial securities, conveyance of lands, etc.)

Financial implications for the City with regard to cost sharing of various elements of the

subdivision which lie within and beyond the limits of the Plan remain to be determined
following final approved design drawings and costing for said work,

CONcLUSiOT

Based on the fore-going information and evaluation, the Planning Department has no

Saecka ts aneateel Bal Pas kimoale e Ooene man .

D. Dick, CPA, CA ‘Andrew McGinnis, MCIP, RPP, DiplM.M,
Director of Pianning (Acting) Planner Il

a

City Manager (Interim)


Page 7 of 23,

SCHEDULE “A” TO REPORT 2018-094-09

3
e

Aerial Vi


Page 8 of 23,

SCHEDULE “B” TO REPORT 2018-094-09

Matthew Eyre <mattnostalgichomes@gmailcom>

Sent: ‘August-15-18 836 AM
To: ‘Andrew McGinnis
Subject: Rockford Forest
Good day Andrew.

| wanted to touch base and let you know that I received your correspondence dated July 26, 2018 concerning the
Draft Plan of Subdivision,

1 would like to officially notify you that I would like to request and extension tothe Draft Plan Approval

‘As you may be aware, Citizens Against Rockford Planning had their preliminary appeal hearing before the OMB.
rejected on October 15, 2015, but they asked for a review of the Decision of Susan de Avellar Schiller (PL150627),
under section 43.

John Simpson, the City Solicitor, sent myself and Maureen Pascoe Merkley a copy of a statement from the OMB to
‘the legal representatives for Citizens Against Rockford Planning. The Statement from $ Wilson Lee, Associate
Chair, OMB dated January 20, 2016 dismissed the appeal of Decision PL150627. 1 was advised several times, not
to proceed until the appeal of this decision was officially dismissed by the OMB.

‘Secondly, was the encumbrance placed on the subdivision due tothe location of several protected butternut
trees. It was a condition of Draft Plan Approval that a C-Permit from the Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR),
be obtained for the removal ofthe protected trees. AAs per the MNR requirements, a 25 metre development free
butfer was to be maintained around the Arehivable Butternut Tree, until such time thatthe C-Permit was issued,
allowing it to be cut down, By our calculation, this 25m buffer impacted 5 proposed building sites in the
Subdivision,

Confirmation was emailed to me on January 11, 2017 by Aaron Foss, Fish and Wildlife Specialist, MNR that the
required C-Permit (#KV-C-002-16) was issued by the Minister on January 3, 2017, It was not economically
feasible to pay and have these 5 lots (almost 20% of the subdivision), serviced yet unavailable, for the year that
passed between the rejection of the OMB Appeal, and the date of the C-Permit.

| have included copies of the OMB and MNR documentation for your information,

| had no control over the above two situations and needed to wait patiently for them to be resolved according to
someone else's time frame. In essence, It has only been a litle over a year and a half January 11, 2017), since |
have been fully able to proceed, not the full 3 years that is standard

‘There has been continued interest in the development and we have accepted several deposits and Letters of Intent
from future cients.

‘We have received tender bids forthe installation of services and are currently reviewing vatious financing
scenarios to understand what suits us best moving forward.

Please let me know how to process the required $400.00 fee for the extension request.

‘Many thanks,
Matt

Page 9 of 23,

SCHEDULE “C” TO REPORT 2018-094-09

) 2
~\ y a _t
zs) ——f—|4
bal al — 2
al om sone
4 4 I ik
Z . fs
4,
° am
a : _
ZL


Page 10 of 23,

SCHEDULE “D” TO REPORT 2018-094-09

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, June 09, 2015

Moved by: Councillor Kalivas

1. THAT approval be granted to the Draft Plan of Subdivision on lands
described as Part of Lot 11, Concession 2, City of Brockville, County
Of Leeds, subject to the following conditions:

')| That these conditions shall apply to the Draft Plan prepared by
Robert J. Jordan, O.L.S., dated 22 July 2014, showing one street,
Flanders Road, and Biocks 1 through 12, inclusive, said Road and
Blocks being delineated as to use on the afore-mentioned Draft
Pian;

ii) That the proposed Street shown on this Draft Plan shall be
dedicated as a public highway to be named "Flanders Road”;

iii) That prior to final approval of the Plan, the Owner shall enter
into a Subdivision Agreement with the City of Brockville which
shall specify, among other things:

2. All of the requirements, financial and otherwise, of the City of
Brockville concerning, but not limited to, the provision of roads,
street lighting, easements and the installation of services, drainage
facilities, as well as

2)_ the provision of screening of dwellings located on
Fitzsimmons Drive which back onto Flanders Road, and
b) cash-in-lieu of parkland dedication.

3, The requirement of the Brockville Fire Department for an acceptable
number of hydrant locations and capacity and location to ensure
emergency services access and fire fighting capabilities;

4, The requirements of Canada Post with respect to the location,
installation of Community Mailboxes and associated easement(s) and
consideration of various conditions as set out by Canada Post. In
addition, all such work must comply with current Canada Post
requirements as provided by Canada Post at the time of start of.
construction;

5. The requirements of Enbridge Gas Distribution Inc., with respect to

the provision of easement(s), installation and clearance
requirements, a composite utility plan, street grading requirements,

Page 4 of 9

Page 11 of 23,

ity of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, June 09, 2015

field survey information, road cross-sections, and consideration of
various other conditions as set out by Enbridge Gas Distribution Inc.;

6. The requirements of Hydro One Networks Inc. with respect to the
installation of electrical servicing, associated easement(s) and
restriction of development on the existing 10.06 m easement;

7. The requirements of Cogeco Cable Canada Inc. with respect to the
provision of easement(s) and installation of Cable servicing and
associated easement(s);

8. The requirements of Bell with respect to the provision of
easement(s) and installation of communication/telecommunication
infrastructure and consideration of various other conditions as set
out by Bell;

9. The developer's responsibility to prepare a Tree Saving Plan and Tree
Planting Schedule for each lot for review and approval by the City of
Brockville prior to development of each lot.

10. Placement of a 25 metre buffer around the "Archivable” tree on Lot
6. Removal and subsequent development of the lots affected by the
buffer is subject to obtaining written approval from the Ontario
Ministry of Natural Resources and Forestry (MNRF).

i) That prior to final approval of the Plan, lot grading, drainage,
erosion and sediment control, and services plan with best
management practices be prepared by a qualified Professional
Engineer for the Owner, to the satisfaction of the City of Brockville
and the Cataraqul Region Conservation Authority, and that
appropriate text to implement its findings shall be included in the
Subdivision Agreement;

li) That prior to the final approval of the Plan, a detailed Stormwater
‘Management Brief shall be prepared by a qualified Professional
Engineer for the Owner, to the satisfaction of the City of Brockville
and the Cataraqui Region Conservation Authority, and that
appropriate text to implement its findings shall be included in the
Subdivision Agreement;

Iii) “That in conjunction with the proposed construction plan, the

Owner shall provide specific locations and dates (i.e. set-up and
removal) for all construction/sales buildings, structures and/or

Page 5 of 8

Page 12 of 23,

City of Brockville
Council Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, June 09, 2015

trailers, outdoor toilets, etc. Said locations shall be to the
satisfaction of the City of Brockville prior to placement. Any and all
such temporary structures shall be located only for so long as is
necessary for the work in progress.

iv) That no tree clearing shall be permitted until approval of a Tree
Saving Plan for each lot or block is approved by the City of
Brockville,

v) That "Best Management Practices” respecting woodlands, and in
particular, Butternut trees as specified in the Environmental
Impact Statement (EIS) by Ecological Services be followed. Said
practices to include, but not be limited to, continuing the process
to address remediation, avoidance measures and removal
measures as they apply to Butternut trees identified under the EIS
and as confirmed by various applications submitted under the
Endangered Species Act as managed by MNRF.

vi) That the Owner shall be responsible for all costs involved with
lands required to be dedicated, conveyed or granted, including but
not limited to, easement(s) over, or under, to the City of Brockville
and/or the appropriate authority or authorities, and the
conveyances to the City of Brockville of Blocks 11 and 12 as 0.3,
metre reserves.

vii) That prior to Final approval of this Plan, the owner shall pay any
and all outstanding taxes levied against the Plan;

Vill) That, if final approval of the Plan Is not granted within three (3)
years of the date of approval of the Draft Plan, and no extensions
have been granted, Draft Plan approval shall lapse in accordance
with Section 51(32) of the Planning Act, R.S.O. 1990, c.P.13. It is
the sole responsibility of the Owner to make such application for
extension of Draft Plan approval; and

ix) That the Final Plan, as approved by the City of Brockville, must be
registered within sixty (60) days of the date of final approval or
the City's approval may be withdrawn in accordance with Section
51(59) of the Planning Act, R.S.0. 1990, ¢.P.13.

CARRIED

Page 6 of 9

Page 13 of 23,

February 12, 2018

Report to Economic Development and Planning Committee
March 6, 2018

2018-021-03 :
Municipal Accommodation Tax Allocation Casselman

Manager of Strategic Initiatives

RECOMMENDATION:

THAT the Municipal Accommodation Tax become effective May 1, 2018;

‘THAT the funds be used to fund the amount of the Tourism Contract and the
balance of the funds be allocated as follows: 54% to Brockville Tourism for
enhanced marketing, 29% to City of Brockville for tourism-related expenses, 17%
to the Tourism Advisory Committee to be used for grants for tourism-related
inttiatives;

THAT any applicable third-party audit fees be funded from the Municipal
‘Accommodation Tax.
PURPOSE

To have Council consider the approval of the Implementation plan for a Municipal

‘Accommodation Tax.

To notify Council that consultation with all local accommodation providers has taken |
place and there are no current concerns with the administration of the tax.

To notify Council that accommodation providers and the members of the Tourism
Advisory Board were surveyed to determine how additional revenues were to be
allocated.

BACKGROUND

On January 30, 2018, Council passed the following motion:

‘THAT a hotel tax at a proposed rate of 4 percent on all Brockville transient
accommodations effective May 1, 2018 be approved;

THAT a total amount of hotel tax be used for Tourism related activities;
and

Page 14 of 23,

Report 2018-021-03,
Municipal Accommodation Tax Allocation

THAT an implementation plan be developed prior to initiating the hotel tax;
and

THAT the necessary bylaw be enacted;

THAT the Township of Elizabethtown-kitley be encouraged to Implement a similar
transient accommodation tax.

Elizabethtown-Kitiey Council has been notified of Council's request to encourage a
similar tax in their municipality and this topic will be introduced at their Council,
meeting on March 12".

ANALYSIS:

Staff has met with the following transient accommodation providers to discuss the
implementation and remittance of the tax:

Comfort Inn on behalf of the Brockville Hotel Association which includes Holiday
Inn, Travelodge and Days Inn
Brockberry Grill & Suites

Daniel Suites

Noble Suites

Tall Ships Landing

1000 Islands Bed and Breakfast
Sir Isaac Brock Bed and Breakfast
Rob Thompson Hotel

Pine Street Bed and Breakfast
O'Sheridan's Bed and Breakfast

Following consultations with accommodation providers the following
Implementation Plan is recommended:

Implementation Plan:
1. Remittance will be done monthly except in the case of businesses who earn
less than $65,000/year who will remit quarterly.

2. The tax will be charged on the bed portion only and it will be up to the
accommodation provider to determine the amount to be taxed. All revenues
are subject to audit by a third-party to be paid by the City. The regulation
allows for the municipality to apply the costs related to collecting and
‘administering the tax against the revenues.

3. The tax applies to any properties providing transient accommodation rental
under 30 days or less and individual accommodator using a common


Page 15 0f 23 |

Report 2018-021-03
Municipal Accommodation Tax Allocation

Platform marketplace service such as Alrbnb, Staff's currently in the process
Of negotiating an agreement with Airbnb.

Staff also surveyed accommodation providers and the members of the Tourism
Advisory Board, to collect their view on how the additional funds should be utlized.

Respondents were asked to indicate a percentage allocation across three possible
areas: enhanced marketing of Brockville; investment in product development of
city-owned assets, grants for festivals/events and new attractions.

A total of 13 surveys were completed.

‘The survey responses suggested the following breakdown:

[Proposed tourism related expenses %
[Enhance marketing of Brockville by expanding reach of current
1___| marketing program managed by Tourism Brockville 54%

investment in product developmentof city-owned assets: for
lexample downtown accessible washrooms, diver’ change room,
2__ [atenadevelopment, ete. 20%

Grants to individuals/organizations for festivals, events, new
3_[attractions, ete 17%
Totall__ 100%

Other suggestions included settin
Used for tourism-related activities in the future, assisting with the capital project for
upgrading the force main or hiring a Director of Tourism,

early contributions into a Reserve Fund to be

response:

|
|
‘The Brockville Hotel Association did not complete the survey but submitted this
The Brockville Hotel Association has met and recommend that 100% of the
funds collected be given to a new Not for Profit to enhance Tourism In

Brockville. |

The Not For Profit Board would be comprised of:

1 representative from each hotel (4)
11 representative from the City of Brockville OR Tourism Brockville
41 representative from the Bed and Breakfast association

And possibly others in the tourism industry.


Page 16 of 23,

Report 2018-021-03
Municipal Accommodation Tax Allocation

The NFP would hire a team ora firm to encourage tourism in Brockville through
increased marketing, festival, etc. which would increase revenue for local
attractions, restaurants, shops and accommodations.

With this feedback, staff is recommending the following allocation of the additional
fund:
+ 54% for enhanced marketing of Brockville through the Tourism Offices

budget

+ 29% for investment in product development of city-owned tourism related
assets

+ 17% for grants to individuals/organizations for festivals, events or new
attractions

POLICY IMPLICATIONS

There are no policy implications at this time.

FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS

The legislation states that 50% of the funds raised must be given to an “eligible
tourism entity”. An eligible tourism entity is defined as a non-profit entity whose
mandate includes the promotion of tourism in Ontario or in a municipality.

‘The proceeds from the tax will fund the value of the tourism contract of $188,000
plus a yearly adjustment for CPI.

‘The remaining funds will be distributed according to the percentages outlined
above.

CONCLUSIONS

‘The arrival of the Municipal Accommodation Tax has been generally very well
received by the accommodation providers and tourism stakeholders as many have
felt that Brockville has been at a competitive disadvantage in marketing as there
has been insufficient funding. This is reflected in the high ranking of marketing
through the allocation survey.

Staff will report on the total funds raised each year and how the funds were
distributed. Financial information with respect to the remittances from each
‘accommodation provider will be kept confidential.


Report 2018-021-03
Municipal Accommodation Tax Allocation

Page 17 of 23,

L. White Va D. Dick, CPA, CA
Manager Strategic Initiatives Director of Corporate Services
B. Caéseiman

City Manager

Page 18 of 23,

National Housing Strategy Review
‘Opportunities for impact and Response
By Leigh Bursey
July 2018,

recently had the opportunity to sit down with representatives of the Canadian Mortgage and Housing
Corporation, along witha number of my colleagues from public, private and municipal non-profit
housing provider corporations fram across the province to address some preliminary concerns and
respond to the intial draft of the National Housing Strategy, whichis now expected to be rolled out this
{all. The intial plan was forthe strategy to rol out this past spring, but the extra amount of time may
‘end up proving valuable to agencies, municipalities, service providers, and developers.

Here are some ofthe takeaways from the conversation, and where there may be opportunities for
fundraising and investment for our area, our communities, and our mandates, Here are some ofthe key
points that stood out throughout the conversation.

‘The Co-Investment Fund:

‘The co-investment fund was never designed to be the one open door to create the final be-al/end-al of
{funding opportunities and strategies, butt isthe most current funding stream that seems ta be an
‘ongoing focus throughout the strategy framework. The challenge with the co-investment fund the way
it has been presented is that while it encourages “innovation” asa buzz word in terminology it mits
hati actualy a sustainable model. Ths fund could be viewed as acsincentive to providers in some
‘cases, as itis much more stringent in its outcome expectations then in the helpit curently affers on the
development side.

‘The Provincial BiLateral Agreement:

‘The Province of Ontario is arguably, in a much better place to capitalize on opportunites and
investments that the National Housing Strategy will ave to offer because of our role the inter
provincial Bilateral Agreements. Being thatthe agreement has already been signed herein Ontario, and
being that the agreement allows uninterrupted financial assistance and investments in the Investment in
Affordable Housing portfolio to flow thraugh, and being that Ontario was the fist province to sign onto
‘adopt this strategy also means that we are more likely to be prepared with shovel eady projects. Our
new provincial Minister of Municipal Affairs and Housing is alzo local to Southeastern Ontario, and is
aware of our plights and ne doubt eager to see many of those investments harnessed locally

Right now, we have a tremendous opportuity to take full advantage ofa fll ol out by providing the
necessary plans, documentation and desires to orchestrate new builds. This could prove useful tous in
terms of capital projects on the horizon, and could also be a valuable tool fr us to encourage new
bulls recognising that according tothe Federation of Canadian Municipalities, every dollar spent on
housing actually equals up to $1.43 in Gross Domestic Product returns. The challenge is that tis very
likely that the Investment in Affordable Housing portfolio could begin tobe scaled back as this strategy
takes full effect, and it would be wise for us to begin making concrete plans for shovel ready projects so
that we do not end up behind the proverbial eight ball. The current idea's forthe federal dollars to
assist and compliment current existing funding streams, but we know as has already been demonstrated

Page 19 of 23,

by the new administration and the desir fr fiscal prudence, that pre-existing funding streams are not
necessarily a safe and sure bet

Accessibility

‘The new development program may help with disability supports that provide unt accessibility,
however there is nothing in the new program at this time that currently provides enaugh financial
support to create a meaningful rent supplement agreement to bring rent toa reasonable market rent
performer and have each unit or a majority of units be entirely accessible. Ifthe funding streams dictate
that an unreasonable threshold of accessibility is expected inorder to access the necessary funds, this
ould inhibit the ability for public and private developers to create and ensure affordable housing and
hhame ownership, as it makes th financial investment ratio too high to ensure a reasonable economic
return. Furthermore, there are no ongoing supports for those peopl requiring support. The current 4%
accessibility requirement means that we don’t currently have people lining up that support, and the Co-
Investment Fund is currently expecting that up to 20% of the units are requiring fll accessibility

[An example of how this could create challenges would be an accessible shower unit (universal design
element) being required, which would then limit the attractiveness or realistic capacity for a family to
utilize the unit based on ft nat having tub

Universal Design:

‘There is more than one need fo accessibility. CMHC was seemingly open to enriching this conversation
rather than having 20% of the units required tobe fully accessible, but nothing has come to pass yt in
terms of curbing this legislation. So where does that lead us n terms of universal design or flexible
housing design?

Atfordabilty

‘There will be 230% mandate for affordability. The other 70% of units builtin a neighbourhood or
dwelling that requires the 30% mandate would have ta be made up of at-market rate units to make a
project work. Pro formas can adapt, change and get better. Currently the Ontario Non Profit Housing
‘Association has encouraged a total of 63,000 new unit builds aver the next ten years for non-profit and
‘affordable homes in order to keep up with and marginally satisfy demands. Theres a shift of focus to
more affordable rents and rent supplements. However, i we want affordability, equity has to be a part
‘of the distinction and discussion,

Under this mantra, 20% i to be spent on capital new builds. 25% i tobe spent on retrofitting existing
units. Ifthe loans are aimed specifically at 75%-80% of funding coming from somewhere else, that likely
means depending onthe province which won't necessarily make sense or prove palatable

I¥ you area charity that owns and operates homes, you may only be able to fund up to 28% ofthe
necessary investment and keep within your variable charitable mandate. With the Co-Investment Fund,
the max in some respects will only be 26% funding leverage, and in many cases the most that a
‘municipality can dois eliminate or forgive a development charge. This could potentially make the Co-
Investment Fund unattainable nits current draft form to many municipalities without the appropriate
private or multi-tier investments already in place.

Page 20 of 23,

‘One of the questions worth considering is how we would unlock the federal land reserve in urban areas,
Which could alleviate some ofthese new build concerns.

Public Transit Criteria:

‘One ofthe requirements set out by the draft strategy is the priority focus on new housing being bult on
‘or near major transtlnes. This presents opportunities for a place like Brockville for example, but could
present tremendous challenges for many rural or remote municipalities across Southeastern Ontario.
This criteria doesn’t necessarily te funding to large urban centres, but itcould defintely eliminate many
‘competitive variables for many rural municipalities, and it could put small urban centres across this
province head and shoulders above rural neighbours or much of North Ontario as a whole.

‘The strategy i stil very new, so no doubt nuances and sophistications wl be flashed out and unlocke,
but this particular piece does create and eliminate opportunity should it not end up being revisited. The
‘overall goal seems to be to have ll three levels of government working in unison, but the necessary
tick-boxes are harder to checkin many rural settings

Conflicting Programs:

For a meaningful contribution to come from social housing administrators, there has to bea legitimate
impact on the provincial housing waiting list, but this also creates a problem. Funding from one
‘mandate rigily affects the others, creating barriers to invalvement (affordability targets versus depth of
‘affordability through unlocked equity).

Collaborative Funding Streams:

‘What is clear from my colleagues, from the dacument and from the preliminary discussions that
fourth stream funding projects seem to be weleamed and desired in order to secure funding. A shared
project emphasis between municipalities, non-profits, and the private sector wil ikely be necessary.
‘There seems to be a much more favourable appetite for an amalgamated funding stream than focusing
attention on columns A, 8, or Cindividually, and inadvertently pitting each criteria against each other.

Potential Opportunites:

‘There are meaningful projets on the horizon, and meeting the deadlines for application isn't as
stringent or fractured as possible. According to CMHC, every sisty days an intake of applications are
reviewed and selected, and money is being rolled out beginning this year.

If we can secure multitiered support fr projects, make the necessary shovel-ready plans, and begin
applying soon, we have investment options that weren't previously available or viable. Especially for
‘community hub projects, projects with private investment, and projects that hita numberof the
necessary criteria sis outlined in the report.


Page 21 of 23,

Association of Municipalities of Ontario
2018 Conference Review
By: Councilor Leigh Bursey
‘August 20%, 2018,

‘A.new provincial government took office this past June, and they have been working overtime to
‘accomplish a number oftheir professional ideological, and campaign goalsin their first umber of
months, soit made fr @ unique and very busy AMO conference ths past week in Ottawa at the Shaw
Centre and Westin Hotel

Municipal leaders from across the province (and some even from as far away as Winnipeg) converged
‘on the conference centre to network among each other, learn from ene anather, and lobby and connect
‘with ministers and erties from different political stripes. Many taking a break from their own municipal

‘campaigns todo so, and many tackling familiar topics.

Popular topics of conversation ranged from autonomous vehicles and how that will reshape the rules of
the road, safety planning, and automation in an already automatic manufacturing sector, all the way to
poling data from professional pollsters on popular topics of discussion leading into this fall's municipal
lection season. Conversations about flood risk, pipelines in Northern Ontario, and international rade
‘agreements were either blanketng or scattering through the conference over the three day municipal

For me, being a veteran of AMO conferences aver my two terms at this table, and believing myself at
being able to sift through various areas of focus to find unique learning opportunities, | found a couple
‘of key sessions very informative as to what we can bath lear from inthe City of Brockville, as well as
hat we are already doing right and/or better than many other comparators,

Enhancing Long-Term Care

[A phenomenal session entitled “Bulding Campuses: Enhancing Long-Term Care and Services for Seniors
presented some tremendous data that warranted some attention as we move towards the next phase
‘of our health care services promotion and support. The session focused on how “seniors! campuses are
‘an innovative and cost-effective mechanism to address many isues concerning senior’ health and well-
being, and to support people's desire to ‘agein place’ in their community,” and how “these models can
integrate a broad range of health, housing and social supports and services in one geographic location
that seniors can access as their needs change.”

[At this session, Jane Since, who acts as the General Manager fr Health and Emergency Services for
the County of Simcoe outlined how thei mult-tiered campus has designed policies to keep seniors
‘seeking and receiving care in (or at their campus for as long as possible by maintaining 2 policy that
keeps internal candidates atthe top oftheir ist. Tht sid, even with their internal metric, only so many
‘g0.0ntolong term care while haf of them do nat. That translates to a frustrating fact that even with all
oftheir internal checks and balances in place, half ofthe clients they serve cannot feasibly in the
‘community they love and/or call home.

Page 22 of 23,

‘On the plus side, their $526 Millon dolar facilities somehow manage to havea total operational impact
‘of a zero percent operating impact increase on their levy each year. Allof their profits go into reserves
‘to help maintain the space. Their facility created 45 new jabs and $3.6 Milian in local economic activity
annually

‘Their business case approach covered alt of variables that are likely easly mimicked should anyone
look to recreate a similar facility appropriate for ther local region. The business case focused on the
‘company brand, the competitars that they can work with, against, and borrow from, the customers they
serve, the collaborative opportunities to create strategic alances, and the overall business climate.
‘They were able to leverage 80 percent of $80 Millon dolar to get this facility aff ofthe ground,
receiving funding from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Housing, their local LHIN, federal and
provincial grants, and local fundraising. They invested money that they had been collecting in a reserve
fund and were also frank about how their development charges were a tremendous tool that they were
able to effectively leverage to help offset total costs.

‘What was clear from ths projects that long term investments in reserves as well as funding
‘opportunities lke development charges (growth paying for growth), and a positive relationship with a
government that was willing to assist withthe investment meant that along term impact was postive
‘and the operating increases were diminished,

What was also exceptional was how they were able to break down how each facet oftheir services
translated ito costs. According to ther statistics, retirement ving costed $67 a day, where asa
hospital bed cost $450. Long term care cst $135 a day where as supportive housing/in house support
‘options cost an average $30. Affordable housing cost $11 day. What ths illustrates is that itis
cheaper on the tax payer to investi people and services before the people they ae investing in are in
such a circumstance as to require larger and more expensive supports

In delaying more expensive supports by providing mare cost effective approaches to community heath
care, we asa tax base are able ta improve the quality of if of those in need, preserve individual and
{family independence, and offset tremendous costs. The Simcoe model may be worth learning more
about moving ferward.

[Active Transportation and Health Promotion

[Another session entitled “Right of Way: Active Transportation and Health Promotion” was actually
‘tremendously less engaging then | expected it would be. With the various conversations we have had
‘about ative transportation options, municipal investment in trails and projects, and healthy debates
bout innovative and health investment, was hoping this session would prove useful to me in offering
some new points of view and opening my mind to ideas we have nat otherwise discussed. Truthfully,
although it didn’t do that, what it id do was reaffirm to me that we are on the right track in engaging in
‘those discussions in the manner that we ae. Through ively debate between ratepayers and advisors,
‘engineers, professionals, and health support services, the overall conversation about active
‘transportation has wel positioned us tobe ahead of the curb as opposed to behind it. Representatives
fof the Ontario Active Schoo! Travel Program, Southwestern Public Health, and even the City of Greater
‘Sudbury highlighted the importance ofan ative transportation study when commiting to long term city
planning, and how some municipalities ae already using innovative approaches to active transportation
by tying their cycle friendly community initiatives to ther local trails. Conversation about public transit

Page 23 of 23,

hours being extended, community beautification to make cycling more attractive, and bike racks being
‘more readily available peppered this session. All of which, we ae already either doing ar attempting to
‘do, working hand in hand with ratepayers, cyclists, and community champions.

Marijuana Legalization

‘The most predominant discussion that seemed to reappear a least for me was what role municipal
governments and emergency services wil lay in marijuana legalization. As the Canopy Corporation
‘opened the doors to its visitor centre this past week, it might be wise for uso start addressing this
conversation with a balanced approach of economic impact, the potential fr opioid abuse/public health
harm reduction, and counter statistics to illustrate just how much public money is spent combating the
costs of small scale mariana related crimes nationally. The anxiety that leaders are feeling is palpable
‘and reasonable to an extent, but the opportunities to reduce overdoses ina time where harm reduction
programs could end up onthe chopping block san important piece ofthe dialogue. Leaders seem more
‘oF less open to the opportunity, and those that jump on the bandwagon are already reaping the
benefits. Traditional ideology needs to be kept to a minimum as this conversation takes places.

Tensions over an out-dated “war on drugs” philosophy could do more harm than good when we fallto
consider the alternatives (as we so often do already).

| would encourage my colleagues and any future council to cansider attending this conference inthe
future. There isa lot of learning to be done, and alot of networking as well

