Page

Page 1 of 5

a Economic Development and

BROCOMILE Planning Committee

BROCKVILLE Tuesday, June 3, 2014, 4:15 pm
City Hall, Council Chambers

Commitee Members ‘reas of Responsibiny

Councilor M. McFall, Chair Economic Development Economic Dovelopmont

Councilor D. Beatty Planning Aaiisory Team

Councilor M.Kaivas «Chamber of Commerce ‘Museum Board

Councilor D. LeSueur BIA Library Board

Mayor D. Henderson, Hertage Broce As Centre

ExOttcio Tourism

COMMITTEE AGENDA

Disclosure of Interest

Delegations and Presentations

1

Ms. Maureen Pascoe Merkley, Director of Planning
(Zoning By-law)

Ms, Pascoe Merkley will give a verbal update concerning the Comprehensive
Zoning By-law.

Correspondence

Nil

Staff Reports

1

2014-064-06
Request for Amendment to Zoning By-law 194-94
Lot 28, Part of Lot 29, Black A, Plan 214
Elizabeth Street, Owner: Nathan Richard

THAT the application for amendment to Zoning By-law 194-94 to rezone lands
described as Lot 28, Part of Lot 29, Block A, Plan 214, City of Brockville,
County of Leeds, located on the east side of Elizabeth Street, from the current
Ri-Single Residential Zone to R3-Multiple Residential Special Exception
Zone to permit the vacant lot to be developed with a semi-detached dwelling
with reduced fot frontage of 16.9 m and capable of being severed into
separate lots upon completion, be denied.

93-56

Pago 2 01 56

Economic Development and Planning Committee
dune 3, 2014

2. 2014-056-05
Regional Economic Development Corporation|
Leeds & Grenville

THAT City Manager Report 2014-056-05 be received for information
purposes.

New Business - Reports from Members of Council
Nil

Consent Agenda

Adjournment

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee adjourned its meeting
Until the next regular meeting scheduled for July 8, 2014

Page 3 of 56

27 May 2014

REPORT TO THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE - 03 JUNE
2014

2014-064-06
REQUEST FOR AMENDMENT TO ZONING BY-LAW 194-94 M. PASCOE MERKLEY
LOT 28, PART OF LOT 29, BLOCK A, PLAN 214 DIRECTOR OF PLANNING
ELIZABETH STREET ANDREW MCGINNIS
OWNER: NATHAN RICHARD PLANNER I
FILE: 014-173

RECOMMENDED:

1, THAT the application for amendment to Zoning By-law 194-9 to rezone lands
described as Lot 28, Part of Lot 28, Block A, Plan 214, City of Brockville, County
‘of Leeds, located on the east side of Elizabeth Street, from the current Ri-Single
Residential Zone to R3-Multiple Residential Special Exception Zone to permit
the vacant jot to be developed with a semi-detached dweling with reduced lot,
frontage of 16.9 m and capable of being severed into separate lots upon
completion, be denied.

PURPOSE

‘The purpose of this report is to provide a recommendation on a requested amendment
to City of Brockvile Zoning By-law 194-84 respocting the zoning on a vacant lot located
‘on the east side of Elizabeth Street.

BACKGROUND

Mr. Nathan Richard, owner of lands described as Lot 28, Part of Lot 29, Block A, Pian
214, Cty of Brockville, County of Leeds, being Parts 2, 4, § and 6, F.P. 28R-10956,
being a vacant lot on Elizabeth Street (as shown on Schedule “A"), has submitted an
application for amendment to Zoning By-law 194-84 which would, if approved, rezone
tho subject lands from Ri1-Single Family Residential Zone to RS-General Residential
Special Exception Zone to permit the subject lands to be developed with a semi-
Getached dwelling and to be severed into two separate lots upon completion. Due to
the lot being undersized for a semi-detached dwelling, special exception is being
requested as it pertains to lot frontage.

in Plan inf

Official Plan Designation: ‘Neighbourhood Area
Existing Zoning: R1-Single Unit Residential Zone
Proposed Zoning: 3-General Residential Special Exception Zone

The proposed rezoning request from Rt-Single Unit Residential Zone to R3-General
Residential Special Exception Zone would, it approved, permit the subject property 10

Page 4 of 5
2014-064-06 Page2
Requested Amendment to Zoning By-Law 194-08

Elizabeth Streot

‘Owner: Nathan Richard

File: D14-173,

bbe developed with a use not permitted with the current zoning being F-Single Unit
Residential Zone. A semi-detached dwelling is proposed, however, a special exception
{or this lot is requested to address reduced lot frontage of 16.9 m, whereas the minimum,
required frontage is 18.0 m for a semi-detached dwelling.

‘Site Characteristics:

Total Area: 591.12 m? (6,962.9 f°)
Frontage, Elizabeth Street: 16.9 m (65.7 ft)
Depth: 94.78 m (114.11 ft)

‘The subject site is currently vacant and contains a large rock outcrop to the mid-rear of
‘the property. The lot is also constrained by an existing sanitary sewer easement that
‘uns from the southerly neighbours’ property (11 Elizabeth Street) on an angle across
the front of the subject lands toward Elizabeth Street.

‘The proposed site plan is attached as Schedule “B” to this report. Photos of the
subject property are attached as Schedule “C”.

‘This vacant parcel was created as the outcome of applications for Consent fled in 998,
being Files 801/98 and B02/98, which are summarized as follows:

‘+ File 801/98 sought to sever lands from Block A, Registered Plan 214, and add it
to the east side of Lots 28 and 29, RP. 214 (the subject parcel and 11 Elizabeth
St)

+ File 802/98 was concurrently filed to sever the enlarged lot from fle B01/98 into
‘wo separate lots, a building lot (the subject lands) to be developed as infiling,
and a separate lot already occupied by a single detached dwelling with municipal
address 11 Elizabeth Street. The Application for Consent for File 802/98
indicated that the intended use for the vacant lot to be created was development
with a single family dwelling.

‘The applications for Consent were approved with conditions by the City’s Committee of
‘Adjustment. The reasons given for supporting File BO2/98 to create a new lot included
‘encouragement for infling, and that the proposed lot met the minimum requirements
‘established for a building lot within the Ft-Single Unit Residential Zone per Zoning By-
law 194-94.

‘The Committee of Adjustment’s decisions made in support of the Consent files were
‘appealed to the Ontario Municipal Board (OMB) by several neighbours. Subsequent to
‘a hearing held on January 11, 2000, the OMB dismissed the appeals, allowing for the
‘subject lotto be created,

Page 5 of 5

2014-068-06 Pages.

Requested Amendment to Zoning By-Law 194-94

Elizabeth Street

‘Owner: Nathan Richard

File: D14-173

‘Surrounding Land Use:

North: ‘The lands to the north are zoned At-Single Unit Residential, and
‘occupied by a Single Detached Dwelling.

East: ‘The lands to the east are zoned R1-Single Unit Residential and are
currently vacant.

South: The lands to the south are zoned R1-Single Unit Residential Zone and
are occupied by a two storey single detached dwelling (currently under
reconstruction).

West: The lands to the west (across Elizabeth Street) are zoned R1-Single Unit
Residential Zone and are occupied by two (2) storey single detached
dwellings.

Public Participation

‘The application for Zoning By-law Amendment has proceeded through the City’s
standard process for such matters. On 01 April 2014, a Public Meeting was held by the
Economic Development and Planning Committee. Notice of the Public Meeting was
advertised in the Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper on 27 February 2014 and
‘was circulated to property owners with 120.0 metres (400.0 ft) of the subject property.
In addtion, a sign was posted on the subject property advising that the lands are the
subject of an Application for Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning by-law 194-94,
Comments from the public, Cty Departments and affected agencies were solicited.

|) Written Comments Received:

(A summary of wntten comments received is provided below. Where detailed
‘comments were provided, the correspondence has been attached to this report as
‘Schedule “D". For protection of privacy, personal information has been withheld.)

1. Steve Allen, Supervisor of Engineering, Environmental Services Department:
* Not opposed to the application; however, should the semi-detached be
‘severed into two (2) properties, both properties must have separate sewer
‘and water services.

2 Conal Cosgrove, Director of Operations, Operations Department:
‘+ Nocomment with respect to the application

3. Brent Caskenette, Chief Building Official, Planning Department:
‘+ ABuilding Permit will be required.
‘+ Separate services shall be provided for each property.
+ Setbacks to be confirmed at time of permit

4, Greg Healy, Fire Prevention Officer, Brockville Fire Department:
‘© Nofire safety concems at this ime.

Pago 6 of 5
2014-068-08 Page 4
Requested Amendment to Zoning By-Law 194-94

Elizabeth Streat

‘Owner: Nathan Richard

File: DIA-173

5. Scott Fraser, Acting Chiet of Police, Brockville Police Service
* No issue with the re-zoning request.

6 Sandra MacDonald, City Clerk
‘+ Noconcern with the proposal

7. Michael Dakin, Resource Planner, Cataraqui Region Conservation Authority
‘+ No objection to the proposal

8 Neighbour

‘* Opposed to the application
No semi-detached dwellings on the south side of King Street in this vicinity,
(Sabine Ad, Clarke Cres., Elizabeth St., Bayview Avenue and Chipman
Road.)

‘+ The lot does not have sufficient frontage. The mass of the project is not in
keeping with the neighbourhood.

‘= The design only shows garages facing the street (no entrances, etc.)

‘© The development will have a negative effect on surrounding property
values.

9. ‘Seven (7) separate Neighbours
Opposed to the amendment.
‘This is not the proper or best use of the property
Land should be restricted to a single family dwelling.
Concerns with adsitional units and parking
The development wil have a negatve efect on surouning property

10. Neighbour

‘© Opposed to the application.

* The development will have a negative effect on surrounding property
values.

‘© Making money at the expense of the existing residents is no reason to
‘change zoning.

‘Nota large lot and should not have two (2) residences on it.

* The development will make the streetscape look like a parking lot,
‘something that does not fit with the existing neighbourhood.

11. Neighbour
‘+ Opposed tothe application.
+ Elizabeth Street is a quiet subdivision consisting entirely of Single
Detached Dwellings.
‘+ Permitting the development of a semi-detached dwelling would be
detrimental to the neighbourhood and to property values.


Pago 7 of 56
2014-064-06 Pages
FRlequested Amendment to Zoning By-Law 194-04

Elizabeth Street

‘Owner: Nathan Richard

File: DUA-173

* The design only shows garages facing the street. This type of
development is used to fil in highly congested areas of large cities and is,
‘ot suitable for the area.

‘+ The proposal is far outside the norm for this area.

12. Neighbour
‘© Opposed to the application.
‘© Two additional dwellings would put a strain on the congestion we already
have on this small street
‘+ Surrounded by Single Detached Dwellings and should remain this way.

43. Neighbour
‘© Object to the rezoning application,
+ Not in keeping with the area as stated within the Official Plan, Section
6.48, Subsection 3v).

+ Elizabeth Steet is a single family neighbourhood with single famity unit
dwelling types.

+ Rezoning alone will not serve the applicant. Request is also being for a
severance and special exception for a reduced frontage.

‘+ Additional dwelling will add unnecessary traffic pressure to the
neighbourhood.

+ The proposed design is not in keeping with the character of the
neighbourhood.

14. Neighbour

‘+ Opposed to the proposed amendment
Permitting the development of a semi-detached dweling would be
detrimental to the neighbourhood and to property values.

‘+ Double the noise, double the vehicles compared to a single.
Increased congestion will cause problems with parking and snow removal
The proposed design is not in keeping with the charactor of tho
neighbourhood.

15. Neighbour
'* Opposed to the application
‘+ The owner purchased the property knowing that it was R1.
‘+ Motivate purely to make a profit.
+ Sots a bad precedent for changing zoning within other RI
‘neighbourhoods.

16. Neighbour
‘© In support of the application.

Page 8 of 5
2014.064-08 Pages
Requested Amendment to Zoning By-Law 194-94

Elizabeth Street

‘Owner: Nathan Richard

File: D14-173

ll) Pubic Meeting - 01 April 2014

The minutes of the Public Meeting indicating submissions made to the Economic
Development Planning Committee are attached as Schedule “E” to this report.

ANALYSIS:
Provincial Policy Considerations:

‘An updated Provincial Policy Statement (PPS) issued under section 3 of the Planning
‘Act came into effect April 30, 2014 The PPS provides policy direction on matters of
Provincial interest related to land use planning and development. Section 3 of the
Planning Act further directs that Council decisions affecting planning matters “shall be
consistent with” the Provincial Policy Statement.

Part V of the PPS sets out various policies which describe the areas of Provincial
interest. Not all policies in the PPS are relevant to the planning matter under
consideration, and thus, only those relevant portions will be referenced below.

‘The PPS defines “intensification” and “Residential Intensification’, respectively, as
follows:

“Intensification: means the development of a property, site or area at a higher density
than currently exists through:

4) redevelopment, including the reuse of brownfield sites;

) the development of vacant and/or underutilized lots within previously
developed areas;

©) infil development; and

4) the expansion or conversion of existing buildings.”

“Residential intensification: means intensification of a property, site or area which
results in a net increase in residential units or accommodation and includes:

4) redevelopment, including the redevelopment of brownfield sites;

) the development of vacant or underutilized lots within previously developed
areas;

©) infil development;

4) the conversion or expansion of existing industrial, commercial and institutional
buildings for residential use; and

@) the conversion or expansion of existing residential buildings to create now
residential units or accommodation, including accessory apartments, second
units and rooming houses.”

Page 9 of 56
2014-08406 Page7
Requested Amendment to Zoning By-Law 194.94

Elizabeth Street

Owner: Nathan Richard

File: D14-173

Section 1.1 Managing and Directing Land use to Achieve Efficient and Resilient
Development and Land use Pattems, includes various policies addressing sustaining
“nealthy, livable and safe communities” through developmenvedevelopment within
settlement areas which build upon existing services and amenities.

Section 1.1.3 Settlement Areas, includes such policies as 1.1.32 ‘land use pattems
within settlement areas shall be based on:

4) a range of uses and opportunities for intensification and redevelopment in
accordance with the criteria in policy 1.1.33, where this can be
accommodated.”

Furthermore, Section 1.1.3.3 also states that “Planning Authorities shall identify and
‘promote opportunities for intensification and redevelopment where this can be
‘accommodated taking into account existing building stock or areas, including brownfield
sites, and the availabilty of sutable existing or planned infrastructure and public service
{acities required to accommodate projected needs”. Additional policies addressing the
matter of intensification are found throughout the PPS.

In summary, intensification is an important theme in the PPS, and Planning Authorities
‘such as the City of Brockville are to provide for appropriate opportunities and locations
{or intensification to occur within settlement areas.

Official Plan Considerations:
The Official Plan, approved the Ministry of Municipal Affairs on February 09, 2012,

provides guidance on how to manage future growth, development, and change within
the City of Brockville.

‘Tho Official Plan designates the subject property as “Neighbourhood Arei

‘The Official Plan's goals are to cr
that is economically viable and
‘amenities, and is well planned.

a sustainable City in torms of health and vitality,
se, has high quality municipal services and

Section 2.3 outlines strategic planning themes which include “A Sustainable, Healthy,
land Vital City’, “An Economically Strong and Diverse City’, “A High Quality of City
Services and Amenities”, and “A Well-Planned Responsive City’.

Section 3 addresses building a healthy and sustainable City. Through Policy 3.2.2
which describes the City Structure, it is noted that the City should direct opportunities for
intensification and infil to Mixed Use Nodes and Corridors in a manner that will not have
destabilizing effect on established neighbourhoods. Section 3.4.2 Residential Areas
policies clearly are intended on protecting the stability of established neighbourhoods

Page 10.1 55
2014-064.06 Pages
Requested Amendment to Zoning By-Law 194-94

Elizabeth Street

(Owner: Nathan Richard

File: D14-173

and ensuring that new development is compatible with the existing character of the
neighbourhood. It is further reaffirmed that future intensification is to be directed to the
Downtown and Central Waterfront Area and Mixed Use Areas, and only limited
intensification will be permitted in Neighbourhood Areas in a form and location that will
maintain the residential character and amenities.

Section 3.2.4.1 outlines policies for the scope of development within “Neighbourhood
‘Areas’ as focusing on low to medium density housing, infiling on existing lots of record
and the rounding-out of existing development pattems (emphasis added). Quoting from
the Oficial Plan:
“It shall be the policy of the City that:
1. The character and identity of existing residential neighbourhoods shall be
sustained and enhanced; and
2. The City’s existing housing stock shall be presorved and maintained,
‘Supplemented by various forms of residential intensification such as infiling and
the creation of accessory dwelling units, where appropriate.”

These general Neighbourhood Area policies are further refined under Section 3.2.4.3
wherein small scale residential intensification is permitted in all Neighborhood Areas
where infrastructure is adequate and where there are no significant physical constraints.

Section 3.2.4.3-Residential Intensification, defines and envisions the creation of
‘complete communities through a holistic approach and on various scales of
development. Specifically, Section 3.2.4.3.4 states that the City shall consider
applications for infil development, intensification and redevelopment of sites and
buildings based on the following criteria:

“the proposed development lands are appropriately suited for intensification in
the context of the surrounding neighbourhood and the City as a whole;

4i. the existing water, sanitary sewer services, and stormwater management
facilities can accommodate the additional development;

the road network can accommodate the traffic generated:

the proposed development is consistent with the policies of the appropriate

land use designation associated with the land;

the proposal respects and reinforces the existing physical character of the

buildings, streetscapes and parks and open space areas;

the proposal is compatible with the surrounding development;

the proposal provide heights, massing and scale appropriate to the site and

‘compatible with adjacent lands;

the proposal provides adequate privacy, sunlight and views of the sky for

existing and new residents;

‘x. the proposal screens loading and service areas; and

the proposal complies to the appropriate urban design and built form policies

of this Plan.”

SRB

& SS

2014-064-06 Page
Requested Amendment to Zoning By-Law 194-94

Elizabeth Street

‘Owner: Nathan Richard

File: D14-173

Section 3.2.4.5 states, among others, that “the City shall ensure that a proposal
representing residential intensification can be satisfactorily integrated with the physical
characteristics of residential and commercial areas...”

‘The general Neighbourhood Area policies are further refined under Section 4.3.
Residential Uses in the Neighbourhood Area may include a variety of residential
welling types, and infil on existing and underutilized parcels is contemplated.
However, itis again reiterated that when consideration is given to any opportunities for
intensification, the character of neighbourhoods shall be preserved.

‘The creation of this lot several years ago provided the opportunity for the intensification
through infiling. However, the contextual setting is an area exclusively developed with
single detached dwellings. This proposal for a semi-detached unit would not be
consistent or compatible with surrounding land uses, and would not reinforce the
existing physical character of this neighbourhood.

Furthermore, while intensification is a principle to be encouraged, the primary
intensification areas are not the existing Neighbourhood Areas, but rather the Oficial
Plan suggests that more appropriate locations to encourage intensification are the
Downtown and Central Waterfront Area and Mixed Use Nodes and Corridors. The
redevelopment of the former 1000 Istands Toyota Dealership at 590 King Stroet West
‘near this neighbourhood is an example of residential intensification cited by the
applicant as being comparative. However, the King St. W. redevelopment project is
situated within a Mixed Use Corridor identified in the Official Plan and thus appropriate
for consideration of such use and density.

‘The principle of infiling was endorsed when this lot was created, but the appropriate
form of development for this property within this neighbourhood is a single detached
dwelling.

Zoning By-law Considerations:

City of Brockville Zoning By-law 194-94, as amended, zones the subject property as R1-
Single Unit Residential Zone. All lands immediately surrounding the subject property are
also zoned Rt.

‘The proposed Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 194-94 seeks to permit
the lands to be developed with a semi-detached dwelling and to be severed into two
‘separate lots upon completion. This requires the implementation of a higher density
zone, and the R3-General Residential Zone is requested.

‘The lot is also undersized by the standards established for semi-detached dwellings in
the R3 General Residential Zone in Zoning By-law 194-94 due to insufficient frontage.
AA special exception is being requested as it pertains to lot frontage to allow a semi-
detached dwelling to be constructed on a lot with frontage of 16.9 m, with allowance for

stot se

Page 12.01 58

214-068-086 Page 10
[lequested Amendment to Zoning By-Law 194-04

Elizabeth Streat

‘Owner: Nathan Richard

File: DIA-173

‘severance into two separate lots in the future, with one of the proposed severed lots
boing undersized, at 7.85 m when 9.0 m is the standard requirement.

|) Permitted Uses - Request for R3 Zone
Uses permitted within each zone are illustrated in Table 1 to this report. Uses permitted

within the R3-General Residential Zone that are not permitted within the current R1-
Single Unit Residential Zoning are italicized and underlined.

‘Table 1: Comparison of Pormited Us0s ax ia meme

Existing Zone Proposed Zane
I-Single Unit Residential Zone 3-Genoral Residertial Zone
‘Sigle Unt Dweting Sngle Unt Dueling
‘Converted Dwoling SembDetached Oweling
Gro Home. Duplex Dwoting
‘Home Occupation Link Dwelting
vale Home Day Nuseny Topex Duong
Bod ana Brosfast Converted wot
Group Home
Fiore Oocupaton
rate Home Oay Nursery
Bod and Breakfast

ii). Special Exception ~ Request for Reduction of Lot Frontage

‘The application proposes that a semi-detached dwelling be built on an undersized
parcel. The R3 ~ General Residential Zone requires a minimum lot front of 18.0 m for a
‘semi-detached dwelling to be constructed. The applicant is requesting a reduction to
that requirement from 18.0 m to 16.9 m.

‘The applicant also intends, at some point in the future, to sever the property, once
developed, in order to facilitate resale, so that each of the two semi-detached lots is
capable of being sold independently. A reduction to the required minimum lot frontage
{for a semi-detached dwelling unit lot is also requested. For purposes of severance into
‘separate lots, lot frontage for one of the lots must be reduced from 9.0 m to 7.85 m.

‘There are a variety of residential lot sizes within this neighbourhood, and the subject lot
is on the smaller side, The applicant has identified in a site plan that, despite the lot
being undersized to meet the minimum lot frontage requirements established in the
City’s Zoning By-law, all other minimum provisions applicable to development of a semi-
detached dwelling can be met (see Schedule “B”). However, this in and of itself does
not provide a sufficiently strong argument to rezone a single lot for development of a
‘use which does not exist in this neighbourhood, nor should be permitted on an isolated
basis.


Page 13.1 55
2014-06-08 Page tt
Flequested Amendment to Zoning By-Law 194-04

Elizabeth Street

‘Owner: Nathan Richard

File: D14-173

The following addresses issues raised in correspondence and at the Public Meeting
hheld on 01 April 2014:

1. Available Servicing Capacity:

‘The Environmental Services Department has confirmed that there is no concem
regarding available capacity for water and sanitary sewer servicing on Elizabeth
Street. However, for a semi-detached dwelling, separate services designed to
meet City standards would be required.

2 Increased Traffic:

‘A review by the Operations Department has confirmed that a single family home
‘can be expected to generate an average of 10 vehicle trips per weekday (total
trips to and from the residence) or 20 vehicle trips per weekday (total trips to and.
{rom the two residences). There is sufficient traffic capacity on Elizabeth Street to
accommodate traffic generated from either form of development.

3. Compatibility with Existing Neighbourhood:

Based on Official Plan Policies, the rounding-out of existing development
patterns while ensuring that the character of the neighbourhood is preserved and
the identity of the area shall be sustained and enhanced. This policy is not being
‘maintained as the proposal for a semi-detached dwelling introduces a new use
which is not consistent with the existing neighbourhood in terms of dwelling
format and lot provisions.

4. Street Parking:

Street parking is currently permitted on both sides of Elizabeth Street. Elizabeth
Street was constructed to a partial municipal cross-section on or about 1976.
The street was subsequently milled and resurfaced to an approximate width of
6.0 metres with concrete curbing on the west side only in 2003, No special
parking restrictions are currently in place for Elizabeth Street.

5. Snow Removal

‘Snow removal on Elizabeth Street is the responsibilty of the City. Street parking
in winter months is subject to the Winter Control By-Law. Snow clearing on
private property is subject to the Drainage By-law wherein drainage is to be
retained on the subject land,


Page 14.01 58
2014-068-08 Page 12
Fequested Amendment to Zoning By-Law 194-94

Elizabeth Street

‘Owner: Nathan Richa
File: DIA-173

6. Fire Suppression:

The Brockville Fire Department has stated that there are “No fire safety concerns
at this time’. In addition, the closest fire hydrant is located approximately 50
‘metres south of the subject land at the south-east comer of Elizabeth Street and
‘Sabine Road. The flow rate for this hydrant is approximately 1,687.9 litres per
minute (blue top). The Brockville Fire Department has confirmed that this flow
rate is considered to be sufficient to provide fire protection, whether the lot is
developed for one or two residential units.

7. Loss of Property Value:

‘The Planning Department does not have the expertise to provide an opinion on
the potential for a loss of property value as a direct result of a semi-detached
dwelling located within an existing predominantly single detached dwelling
community.

8. Maintenance and Design of Semi-Detached Dwelling:
Maintenance of dwellings is subject to the Property Standards Bylaw.

The City of Brockville does not have design requirements for semi-detached
dwelings beyond those identified under Cty of Brockvile Zoning By-law 194-34,
as amended, addressing such elements as setbacks, building height, parking,
landscaped open space and the like. The presentation of “garage front” is not
prohibited under the City's Zoning By-law, but is ofton discouraged from an urban
design perspective.

9. Alternative Development Sites:

Semi-detached dwellings are permitted within the following zones: R3-Goneral
Residential Zone and R4- General Residential Zone. Under the Planning Act, an
application may be submitted for consideration for Amendment to City of
Brockville Zoning By-law 194-94. However, the observation that the applicant
‘could select an altemate location is a moot point as this discussion deals only
with the subject land,

10. Noise Generation:
‘The generation of noise from two new dwelling units was brought foward as a

concern. Excessive noise within any residential area within the City of Brockville
's governed by the Noise By-law.

Page 15.01 55
014-064-086 Page 13
Requested Amendment to Zoning By-Law 194-04

11. Obstruction of Front Yard Servicing Easement by Resident Parking:

‘As noted previously, there is a servicing easement across the front yard of the
subject property to alow for servicing of 11 Elizabeth Street. Provisions
portaining to the rights afforded by this private easement are not enforced by the
City of Brockville, however, with knowledge of it, the City would not issue a
permit for any building which might obstruct the easement.

POLICY IMPLICATIONS:

‘A review of the Provincial Policy Statement and relevant policies within the Official Plan
has been conducted and is provided within the Analysis section ofthis report.

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS:
‘All costs associated with this application are the responsiblity of the applicant.
CONCLUSION

When the subject lot was created several years ago, it provided an opportunity for
intensification in this neighbourhood through infiling. The lot size was and still is
sufficient for development of a single detached dwelling, permitted by the current R1
Single Unit Residential Zone. The request to rezone to an R3-General Residential
‘Special Exception Zone to introduce another dwelling unit type at a higher density is
inconsistent with the neighbourhood, and is not entirely consistent the Official Plan's
direction respecting the preferred locations for residential intensification.

‘Therefore, the recommendation in this report is to deny the requested amendment to
the Zoning By-law 194-94,

eel of Planning Planner It

ee

B. Casselman
City Manager


Page 16 1 58

SCHEDULE “A” TO REPORT 2014-064-06



fing et wet

95 081 a6eq

Page 19.1 58

SCHEDULE “C” TO REPORT 2014-064-06

carrreenté 10208

Page 20.01 55


5 )
SCHEDULE “D” TO REPORT 2014-064-06

fal
Memorandum BROCKVITLE
File No. 014-173
ete s.2014
To Lorin Bagnall

‘Administrator Coordinator - Planning

From: Steven Allen, C.E.T., MM.
Suparvisor of Engineering

Subject! Application for Zoning for By ~ Law Amendment, Lot 28 and Part Lot
28, Block A, Plan 214, City of Brockville.

The Environmental Services Department has reviewed the request for zoning by-
law amendment to allow R3 zoning instead of R1 zoning. This rezoning request is
to permit the applicant to build a semi-detached dwelling. We are not opposed to
the application but have the following comment, if the semi-detached dwelling is to
‘be severed into two properties both properties must be serviced with sewers and
water.

>) Page 2201 58

eee CITY OF BROCKVILLE

10:
copy:
FROM:
suaJect:

DATE:

Andrew:

PLANNING DEPARTMENT - BUILDING SERVICES DIVISION
INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM

‘ANOREW MCGINNIS ~ PLANNER I

BRENT CASKENETTE - CHIEF BUILDING OFFICIAL
ZONING BY-LAW AMENDMENT FILE 014-173
ELIZABETH STREET

MARCH 10, 2014

(Our review of the proposal for the above noted subject site development has been
completed and at this me would advise ofthe folowing:

+ A Building Permit will be required for each new residence.

‘+ Per OBC, separate services shall be provided for each lot and shall not cross,
property boundaries and shall be connected to municipal services.

‘+ LovUnit 1/~ the side yard setback (1.53 m) plus the house width (6.38 m)
exceeds the property width (7.85 m) as noted. Totals 7.91 metres and does not
correspond t0 the request of 7.85 metres. Building width at front of unit is 6.38
metres and 6.50 meves at the rear. The 1.63 m side yard setback is not being
‘maintained. Inconsistent figures and measurements should be addressed prior to

‘permit application.

Regards,

(Conh

‘GRENT B. CASKENETTE - CHIEF BUILDING OFFICIAL

City of arocktla, One King Street West, P.O. Box 5000, Brockvile, ON KBV TAS
“ol. (643) 342-0772, ext. 444 Fax (613) 408-2783 - Eall beaskonette@brockvile.com

Page 23 1 58

1s)

Director of Planning
City Hall, One King Street West

Brockville, ON KEV 7AS.

PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO CITY OF BROCKVILLE ZONING BY-LAW 194-94

(Elcabeth Street, Brockile-— File No. 014-173) f

‘1am opposed to the request forthe change of zoning from Ri Single Unit Residential to R3 General
Residential as well as to the request for Special Exception Zoning to allow forthe construction of 8

semb-detached dwelling.
Currently there areno semi-detached dwellings on the south side of king Street inthis vkcinty (Sabine
‘oad, Garke Crescent, Elizabeth Street, Bayview Avenue and Chipman Road )

Furthermore in aR3 Zone the minimum frontage for 2 semidetached dwelling Is 60 feet requiring 30
feet frontage for each unit.

‘The owner does not have sufficient frontage for such a project. The mass ofthe proposed project is
‘not In keeping withthe proportions ofthe neighboring homes.

‘The sketch of potential parking and ground floors Is vague at best and Indicates no front entrances (or
‘any entrances) for each proposed unit and leaves only garage dors facing the street.

“Ths project wll negatively affect the property value of other homes nthe area by changing the
landscape /streetscape ofthe community.

‘Asa last point, construction so close tothe sanitary easement may prove problematic and I would like
tobe assured that the property owner would assume ll responsibilty for any damages to this sanitary

‘easement.

>) Page 24 01 58

oO

March 6, 2014

City of Brockville
‘The Economie Planning Committee
1 King St W

Broclville, Ontario

K6V 7AS

Re: Elizabeth Street Brockville
Di4-173

Dear Sir

Please accept tis letter as our formal notice of opposition the proposed amendment
regarding a zoning change on Elizabeth Street. We feel this not the proper and best use of
the property the parcel of land in question should be restricted to one single family
dwelling as is every other property on the suet. In addition to keeping new construction
in line with what exists already we have additional concerns with parking issues that
would be ereated by adding two additional households. This winter really highlighted
hhow congested that corner can get and adding additional households beyond what is
‘approved now would be unwise. We also have concerns with the negative impact a
semi/row house would have on our property values as we have a significant investment at
stake here,

Should you have any questions or if you need to speak with us please feel free to cal


Page 25 01 58

March 7, 2014

City of Brockville
‘The Economie Planning Committee
1 King St.

Brockville, ON

Re: Elizabeth Street, Brockville
File D14-173
‘This leter is my formal notice of objection to the proposed amendment to City of Brockville

zoning by-law 194-94 (Elizabeth St File No. D14-173) ia

MPAC told me that the reason my property axes are above average is because [live onthe river
and in an RI single family zone. Changing the zoning to R3 General Residential Special
Exception Zone so close to my property would cause my property's value to seriously decline
‘When I purchased my property in an Rl zone a city representative assured me that RI was the
best protection for my property values. Other than making money forthe owner ofthe subject
property tthe expense of the existing residents, I se no reason thatthe area zoning should be
changed.
“The subject property was at onetime joined with lt 11 on the diagram|
This is
‘nota large lot and should not have two residences on it

‘The planned structure will fil almost the entite width ofthe lot, and the Elizabeth St, side will be
almost all driveway, looking more like a parking lot, something that does not fit with the existing
neighbourhood properties, all of which ae single family residences with grass laws.

‘Yours truly,

Page 26 01 55

March 10, 2014

City of Brockville

Director of Planning

1 King St W, PO Box 5000

Brockville, Ontario

K6V 7AS

Re: Elizabeth Stret Brockville
File 14-173

Dear Sir,
Please accept this letter ns our formal notice of opposition tothe proposed amendment regarding a
zoning change on Elizabeth Street.

Elizabeth Street isa quit subdivision consisting entirely of single-family dwellings. Most of the
residents ofthe street are retired, ar soon to be retired, people enjoying the peacefulness ofa typical
Brockville neighbourhood.

‘To build semi-detached row-house here would be detrimental to the neighbourhood and to our
property values.

We built oar home here on Elizabeth siect, investing a lot of our money, because it was a beautiful,
Quiet, single-family dwelling area where we wanted to retie. We hope to stay here fora long time.

In addition to our opposition to a duplex, the sketches provided by the builder appear to show that
the front of the property would consist solely of two double garage doors and two driveways. This
kind of ugly row-bouse is used to fill a highly congested areas of large cities and is not suitable for
the area. Building it cloer to the street, as proposed in the zoning amendment, would make the ugly
building stand out even more.

{Idon’t understand why the City of Brockville would even consider this zoning change which i far
‘outside the norm for this area.

‘Should you have any questions or if you need to speak with us please fel fee to call.
Yours tru

»)
MARLY 7 IO

Page 27 of 55

crry of Baoerviece  \2 eS
Tite <Cowonna bidrn Ab Cooninnesbe
LL me
fesch ee OM FAW
HEV F387
Be Kit ZARB Groce
File LE “73

Meese ACCEPT rw Aerrete FE
Fok navc POT ee Of CesT 70O# Feo
thts flop OTE? BM ETO IPR

feceoree epee COCR ot
Lpvediern FO 0 gre A T#o
farriey a ee for
Brow Spe TOR con eteren OF

AC EROG SES Om 7 cada

( Mabou FCI? on ete Fr
poe Zo Pre © HOVE al CMED “T

wos, As you Kame AO aoe FEF
Pe ee eared 0 COC
bee FUuecE FACES ee
Gropee CErnO ARE ner wetg (0 AG
7 en aa


Page 28 1 55

> cea

March 17,2018

Cty of Brock, city Hal
1 king Steet West, P.O. Box 5000, Brockville, ON KEV 7AS eas

‘Re: Proposed Amendment to Clty of Brockville Zoning By-Law 194-94 Elzabeth Street, Brockville
File No. 024-173,

Attention: rector of Planning

‘ear Ms. Pascoe Merkley,
‘Thisletteris in response tothe proposed amendment to rezane subject property on Elizabeth Street

{rom existing Ra Single Unit Residential to R3 General Resklential Special Exception Zone fled by Nathan
Alchard (Applica),

ST ease bes
Tons recoring application forthe folowing reasons

Proposed reroning confixts withthe Intent of Brockvle's offical plan which sets out a20 ye
{rowth management regime forthe City through to 2031, As stated in the Brockvile Approved
Official Plan, Section 6.8.8 subsection 3)
(© "the proposed expenslon doesnot increas Rs Incompatilty with he surrounding ares”
' _Elrabeth Streets a single farily neighborhood with single uit dweling types
= _ Proposed property isthe product ofa previous severance already granted to Kelth Somerville,
© City of Brockville have already served an “ini” mandate for this property,
+ Rezoning alone will not serve Applicant's requirement
© Applicant I also requesting, or planing to request
Additional property severance, and
‘Special exception for reduced lot from 30 feet to 25.8 feet
‘According to Zoning 8y-Lay 19434 Part 5.0 Section 5.3, oth Semi/Link and Duplex dweling
typesrequire:
© Minimum lot frontage of 60 feet, if severed, fas to comply with 5.3.1 (e), and
‘©. Minlmum exterior side yard of 15 fet (alto comp), and
©. Minimum Interior side yard of feet.
+ Only the 5 foot sie yard requirement wil be met with his proposal
> _Overhang on southwest comer of proposed unt 3 may infringe on existing sanitary easement
zabeth Streets narrow and quest parking requirements resulting from one addtional
dwelling will add unnecessary pressure tothe neighborhood
‘Aesthetically the proposed semi-detached dweling wil present two (2) double garages to
Eazabeth Street; the equivalent of four (4) garage doors in a row. This wil not be in keeping with
the character of the neighborhood,


Page 2901 55

March 17, 2014

Ms. Maureen Pascoe Merkley
Director of Planning

‘of Brockville

1 King Street West

P.O. Box 5000

Brockville, ON K6V 7AS

RE: Proposed zoning by-law amendment, File No DI4-173

Description: Lot 28 and Pt. Lot 29, Block A, Plan 214, designated as Parts 2,4, Sand 6,
Reference Plan 28R-10956, City of Brockville, County of Leeds

Dear Ms Merkley
We hereby wish to state our opposition tothe proposed zoning amendment,

The inclusion ofa semi-detached dwelling inthe middle ofan area with nothing but
Single-family homes will reduce the property value ofall properties inthe
neighbourhood.

A semi-detached residence will double the noise and traffic ofa single detached
residence.

On street parking for visitor is already a problem on Elizabeth Street, impeding trafic
and interfering with snow removal operations in the winter, The proposed rezoning will
doubly increase this problem,

‘The subject property exists asa result ofa previous rezoning amendment. The granting of
‘further amendment would result in a gross exception to the general zoning ofthe entire
local community.

‘This proposed construction witha frontage consisting of nothing but garage doors and.
‘wo double-width driveways would not bein keeping with the character of the
neighbourhood,

We therefore object tothe proposed amendment.

Respectfully yours,

Page 3001 55

ELIZABETH STREET, BROCKVILLE.

Re: Lot 28 and Part Lot 29, Block A, Plan 214 designated at
Parts 2 4, and 6, Reference Plan 288-10956 City of Brockville,

|1am writing to object to the proposed change tothe above property from R 1 single unit
Residential to R 3 for the purpose of bullding a semi detached dweling on the above lot.

‘The Lot in question is prime land with a view of the river. This is not the place to build a semi
detached dwelling in between other older detached homes on Elzabeth Street. There is plenty
‘of other vacant land in Brockville for the developer to build 3 semi-detached hame. The
developer bought the lot on Elizabeth Street knowing that it was zoned Ri single unit
‘residential. He is motivated purely to make more profit. This will uin our residential
Neighbourhood and sets a bad precedent for changing the zoning in other established R 1 single
‘nit residential Streets in Brockville.

DATED March 18" 2014,

CwieWe: E69 SCHEDULE “E” TO REPORT 2014-064-06 °°! PaseRed#at ose

fal Public Moot

Economic Developmer

a Planning Commit

‘una home abt0 8,

iavtes “et can ort
Sametoro too

Pac ey Dear ot Paring
eS Ses ay can feces)
‘The Chere te eng eter at 68am
oon
Fopra nano Zang rion 14-04
(in Perot Boa Pte
rate
om oy: Comet Beaty

Betta Pacing Commune sa knwmmacey hmv ~~ “
i AMcoon, Pane, svcd Nec of Pl ekg mpage stn 20g By Anat een
‘ava peer oaabon sata pad one nal apr svany ba ee eB Ce eo hoa tr Mena ee
Enpaddozae Zag yu oc

Ce ats cig Chat at ry pen wry ar aes pene he opi aman sk ve A ae,
‘SSsten npn cas sna Sosa perio uy

1 tec ovat # arma to tn

i Rinrs Aocar a be pletion a elias Ps ey one a te ag wie che dscns nr so
{tessa nara hrf ert Pera wea anes He ars aw al ag ees mae oF
‘Sepang nent rer sass acer ody Sewanee

Me Lae chr geno a apne,

1 sm ert i renin th spenten He net ha ma wan ean

a Tent a sah ppoton oe spate ge: cas conan pun ning a ad a th sy
‘eros rad Purser sou nr Rs ed a uu a oe ye

‘en Se sce paso nd ose etanercept ah at
‘ Oome Buon ate nent ee aptatn charg am rg ant eat a cd
Rs Ginn i opto oh ape Hens ate agate ge iy

a Tn Frat rot Neeson te apeaon

https://brockville.civieweb.nevDocuments/DocumentDisplay.aspx?Print=14&Id=67406 5/28/2014

CivieWeb: Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning - 0

. Pageaab 32 of 56

SUS seer

Cur eae repeat ata hep rig on ae
Ga a comment a elt yout are veces chs ay
rs Etna Tare concer al on sal asonvcatacet rare

Me May ae Fete canard ht sn ech web ayn on ra

‘Temeeing eames 88

‘Ratt mans on Cs

https://brockville.civieweb.nevDocuments/DocumentDisplay.aspx?Print=1&1d=67406 5/28/2014

Page 33.01 58

June 03, 2014

REPORT TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING COMMITTEE ~ June 3, 2014

2014-056-05
REGIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION BOB CASSELMAN
LEEDS & GRENVILLE CITY MANAGER
RECOMMENDATION

‘THAT City Manager Report 2014-056-05 be received for information purposes.
PURPOSE

‘To provide Council with an update relative to the feasibility of a Regional Economic
Development Corporation in Leeds and Grenville.

BACKGROUND

(On July 23, 2013, Council approved the following motion:

‘That staff be directed to examine in conjunction with the Brockville and District Chamber
cof Commerce and partner municipalities, the feasibiliy of a Regional Economic
Development Corporation, and reasonable efforts willbe made to report back to the
EDP Committee by November, 2013.

(Over the ensuring months, similar motions were approved by Gananoque, Prescott and
UCLG. Staff have met on several occasions to develop terms of reference and a grant
application through our local CDC to suppor the retention of a third party consultant.
The grant application was denied due to insufficient funding.

‘Subsequently, each of the municipalities was approached to fund a portion of the
$40,000 budget.

The City of Brockville allocated $15,000 towards this initiative.

Partner municipalities of Prescott, Gananoque and the UCLG decided not to allocate
funds to complete this project.

‘This lack of funding and political support has been conveyed to the executive of the
Brockville and District Chamber of Commerce.

Page 34 01 55

2014.056-05
Regional Economic Development Corporation 2

‘CONCLUSION

there are other intiatives/approaches underway, as outlined in Schedule 1, at this
time, there appears to be insufficient political and financial support to pursue this file
further.

ee AE—

5. Casselman
City Manager

Our Future Economy

Presented by: Regional Business Community

JOBS! JOBS! JOBS!

Exploring Opportunities
Success in the world today requires creativity and collaboration.
Community leaders have a responsibility to ensure organizational
effectiveness so they can optimize opportunities in a global economy.

Information S

Regional Economic Development

Expert Panelists:
Jay Amer, Certified Economic Development Professional (Amer & Associates) Bio,
Chris King, CEO, Quinte Economic Development Commission Bio

AGENDA Chair: Ian McFall, Burnbrae Farms

3:00 Meet and Greet
3:30 Presentations by Panelists, Q&A
4:30 Facilitated Discussion on Next Steps

Register for this free event Click Here

When: Thursday June 5th, 2014 gpm-5pm
Where: Maitland Recreation Centre Map


Page 36 01 55

Jay Amer, Ec.D. President,
Amer & Associates Economic Development

Jay Amer is a Certified Economic Development professional who established Amer &
Associates Economic Development in January 2010. Prior to forming his own consultancy he
was responsible for delivery of a wide variety of economic development services for the
regional economic development corporation in Peterborough, Ontario.

‘Amer & Associates has provided interim management services to the Ontario East Economic
Development Commission (OEEDC) since January 2013 and has served as chair of the
Marketing Committee and the Advanced Manufacturing Investment Attraction Program,
bringing diverse rural and urban communities together in a collaborative marketing effort to
support investment attraction initiatives in sectors that include tourism, aerospace,
‘automotive, agri-food, nuclear and green technologies.

Involved in several non-profit organizations as an executive board member, Jay has an
interest in effective board governance and has contributed to the development of dynamic
delivery models for economic development organizations.

Prior to joining the economic development profession Jay had a successful career in engineering,
public affairs and communications with Ontario's provincial electrical energy utility. He is a Past-
President of the Economic Developers Association of Canada (EDAC) and a recipient of Bell
Canada Ontario East Economic Developer of the Year award presented for contributions to his,
‘community and the economic development profession.

Page 37 of 58

Chris King, CEO,
Quinte Economic Development Commission

Inhis role as Chief Executive Officer, Chris oversees all activities of the Quinte Economic
Development Commission, a regional economic development organization that represents the
City of Belleville, The City of Quinte West (Trenton) and the Municipality of Brighton.

Highlights:

‘¢ Instrumental in assisting local business grow and expand in his community as well as.
attracting new manufacturing investment to the Bay of Quinte Region including Vantage
Foods, Research Castings, Kellogg and others.

‘* Earned the Economic Developers Association of Canada / University of Waterloo -
Professional Economic Development Designation -Ec.D.

© BA (Economics) Carleton University

‘© Under Chris's leadership the Quinte Economic Development Commission was the lead
organization in developing programs to support the local manufacturing labour force. Since
1999, the Quinte EDC has accessed and administered over $8 million in funding on behalf of
the local manufacturing sector.

‘* Recognized for his efforts by his colleagues when he received the VIA Rail Canada / Ontario
East Economic Development Commission Economic Developer of the Year for 2000.

‘© In February of 2007 Chris was presented with top award for the Province and received the
‘economic development achievement award for Ontario at the Economic Developers Council
of Ontario annual conference.

‘* In September 2008 QEDC under Chris’ leadership was recognized by the Editors of the US
based Site Selection Magazine and the Economic Developers Association of Canada as one of,
the top 10 economic development organizations in Canada.

Chris is active on a number of boards, committees and has lead a number of initiatives including:
‘*  Co-developer of the Workforce Development Initiatives
‘© Ontarlo East Economic Development Commission Marketing Chair 2002-2004.
‘* Team Leader for the Eastern Ontario Food Processing Sector Marketing Initiative
Leader of several investment missions to major US Cities
Ex-officio Trenval Community Development Corporation Board of Directors
Member of the Trenton Rotary Club
Chair of the Board of Quinte SailAbility, a not-for-profit sail training school offering
to people of all ages with disabilities
‘© Chris is married to Yvonne and proud father to his girls ~ Carina and Makena


Page 38 1 55

oO

BROCKVILLE

CITY OF THE 1000 ISLANDS.

A Review of Economic Development
Service Delivery Models

Final Re
(z012.\

Prepared for

David Paul, EeD. (F)
Director, Economic Development
City of Brockville

Page 3901 55

‘A Review of Economic Development Models

Overview of Primary Economic Development Models

“Municipalities use a variety economic development models to achleve their objectives. There appear tobe
‘two (2) standard types of economic development models in practice today, the Non-Profit Development
Corporation and the Municipal model. Another, the Hybrid model is more ofan advisory committee for
‘the municipal modeL All have merits for providing opportunity fr successful economic development
sen dvr dependent on community repos neds and lve ofcaperaon wth paraer
Jurisdictions.

+ Non-Profit (Private) Development Corporation Model:
+ Municipal Economie Development Model;
* Private/Public Hybrid Model.

‘The Non-Profit Development Corporation Model
In Ontario, the non-profit (private) development corporation model often focuses on the marketing ofthe

‘or group of municipalities. ts rarely the only economic development body and often works
{conjunction with the area munlepaltyi'serves. Occasionally this model wil assume all economic
‘evelopment functions, especally where more than one co-operating jursdlction I involved. This model
‘usually operates as an Ontario Corporation Without Share Capital. A key component i the successful
‘engagement of the private sector (a8 board members/advisors and financial contributors) and the
‘primary devotion of resources to busines attraction activities ~ specifically national and international
Brsiness attraction, Funding is wevally received from the area municipal, potentially upper ters of
‘governments and contributions from the private sector.

‘Some examples of these private development corporations inclu
+ Kangston Beonomic Development Corporation:

+ London Economic Development Corporation; and
+ Sault Ste. Marie Economie Development Corporation.

‘Avariation of this model was employed by the Greater Peterborough Area Economic Development
Corporation where the Board of Directors included elected ofa, until 2005 when the elected officials
‘were replaced by CAQs ofthe partner communities (a ty and county) to provide liaison and municipal
Input without direct political influence that was often a distraction tothe implementation ofthe
corporation's mandate,

‘Areviw ofthis model was completed bythe City of Hamilton in 2007 andit was noted that these
‘corporations usualy perform optimally when:
1L They are located in newer, suburban growth type cies witha large land supply and new
economy type businesses; and:

2.They are able to rely ona separate group of dedicated municipal staff mandated to dea with
evelopment issues as thelr main priority.

Page 40.01 58

‘The Municipal Economic Development Model
‘Where economic inftatives are primarlly development focused, some municipalities have employed a
‘municipal model providing services “in house” In order to ensure strong connections between the
‘ssodated planning publie works, engineering and other municipal departments. In fat, often the
‘municipality wil leate these associated services together to encourage co-operation and enhanced
‘customer service for economic development clients. This models typeally employed in established
‘munictpalities with ageing ifrastrucare and a historic reliance on traditional industries, they are often
Tooking to make the shift to manea mare knowledge based economy. In house economic development
portfolios usally indude an assortment of other community priorities sch as business retention and
‘xpanson, brownfield redevelopment, industrial land development, and small business and
textreprencurtlstar-up suppor. Some Ontario examples of municipalities applying ths model ae the
‘Cy of Mississauga, City of North Bay and Region of York. In Eastera Ontario, Smiths Fall, City of
Kevrartha Lakes, Cornwall and Trent ills are examples ofthis mode.

‘The Hybrid Private/Public Model
‘This model combines elements of both the purely private and public models. The private sector is
‘engaged through an advisory board usually comprised of senior elected officals as well as business
leaders. The purpose of the Doard Isto provide strategic direction on economic development matters and
‘toassistin the marketing and attraction activities. Further, given tha the economic development function
remains within the municipality, tenjoys the advantage of being integrated within the other supporting
departments. One example of ths model includes the Cky of Hamilton.

A Range of Options
in practice Itthere are a wide range of organizational arrangements and structures ~ with very few having
‘a purely private or public model.

Economic Development Corporations
‘While many munttpallties have a Development Corporation that performs certain functions, most have
‘Strong ties tothe munfcipaity In which operates. The following Economic Development Corporations
‘were examined with special attention pald to thelr respective mandates, functions and staffing:

London Economie Development Corporation;
Brampton Downtown Development Corporation;

Sault Sta, Marie Economic Development Corporation;

‘St Thomas Economic Development Corporation:

Greater Peterborough Area Economic Development Corporation:
Kingston Economic Development Corporation:

Burlington Beonomic Development Corporation; and

(Quinte Economic Development Corporation

ach Development Corporation operates diflerenly, depending on ts mandate. While some focus more
‘generally on business atraction forthe whole city (London, Sault Ste. Mare, Kingston, Burlington) others
{focus on the regional economy (St.Thomas, Greater Peterborough Area, Quinte Region) o simply
Inited geographic area within the community (Brampton Downtown).

‘Within their respective mandates they provide a wide-range and numerous combinations of different
functions or services, including:

Page 41 of 58

‘She Selection Data;
(Community Profiles and Statistics, Beonomic Research;
Information on Incentives:

‘Business Advisory Services;

Property Management;
Development/Redevelopment Services:

‘Strategie Planning Assistance; and

‘Most ofthese corporations are managed by a Presdent & CEO. with private sector or related economic
development and planning experience, governed by a Board of Directors comprised of various public and
private sector stakeholders. Many are direc funded by the local government but operate atan arms
length, Pll-time staffing complements run from one or two to more than 20,

Inthe US, Economic Development Corporations have an even broader mandate with an ably to play 2
‘more direct anctal roe. In three municipalities surveyed (San Diego, Milwaukee and Metro Denver) the
additonal funedons included:

4+ Strategic Planning:
+ Urban Design:

Flnancing/Loans other financial programs:
Property Acquisition and Relocation;
‘Management of Redevelopment Projects,
Public improvements/Public Art
Land Assembly Assistance; and
‘Environmental Remediation.

‘Municipal Economic Development A
‘The creation of an Economic Development Department is common approach within Southern Ontario
‘munetpalties. In some communities, the department may complement the effort ofthe local economic
‘development corporation or It may acts a stand-alone body forthe promotion of certain economic
‘objectives. To large extent ft also depends whether or not the municipality is operating within a single
ter or dual er governmental structure.

‘Arevtew ofthe municipalities of amlton, Brampton, Mississauga, Brantford andthe Region's of York and
‘alton highlight some of the elements to this approach,

‘The following summarizes the focus ofthe each ofthe above noted cities and an example in eastern
Ontario,

Government Structure Functions

Hamilton singe Ter
‘Ste Selection Assistance

Information and Research

Coordination of City of Hamilton Services.

Brownfield Redevelopment

Industrial Land Development

‘Small Business Creation

Mississauga Two Tier (Region of Pee!)
‘Ste Location Assistance
Information And Statistics
Industry And Business Networks
Business And Community Contacts
Government Approval Assistance
Business Problem-Solving

Brampton Two Ter (Region of Peel)
‘Business Development and Marketing
Busines Information and Competitive Polley

+ Tourism
Entrepreneurship and Small Businesses
+ Siw Selection Assistance

Market insight

‘Municipal Cost Information

‘Atthe uppertier level an overview ofthe varous economic development functions performed by the
Region of York and Halton include:
“Accesso Government Funding Programs;
Financial Advice:
Business Investment,
Corporate Visitation Programs:
Economic Ineligence and Innovation
Export Development
Local Business Connections
Location Selection Assistance;
Small Business Start-Up:
“Tourism Advertising and Promotion:
Monitoring and Quarterly Reporting.
‘Annual Benchmarking:
economic and Real Estate Data;
Research and Data Analysis:
‘Supporting innovation and Workforce Iniatives;
‘Eisting Employer Assistance; and
Facltating Recrultment and Retention of Physicians.

‘Northumberland Two Tier
Se Selection

Workdorce Development,

Sector Studies

(Community Profile

Page 42.01 58

Rianne ‘Abit tobe well conneced wth the | Potetialy dlsconneced fram,
‘sins commurty wih the private
ectar represented on te boad, | Potei fora stronger workdng
Potentaly asconnected from restora wth departments Sach
smunicalty and cand. ste,
Taroom Abily to werk we mirimum of | Structured decsion making
Bureaucracy nan ervrcmert that | framework rvohing
cotter requires fast-paced decsion- | comuitise/councl process.
‘making. However, Res requring
board attenon between mestngs
‘eed tobe banded by GH/CEO due
tp ited frequency of meetings.
raion ‘Viewed as an exteralstakehotder | Abiy to ones dy resoures and
projects across
Paes ‘ly to have sown sek of poles | Cry pouces preva
reflecting the nature and needs
‘sxocated with te Corporation's
actives.
ir} bly to ae he Toes of waives — | Projects tat don Fe with any tier
nthe coe pores Keried | department such as information
{trough an economic development | technology, capt
srategy. ‘municipal realestate mates, and
‘greener may be
assigned tothe economic
‘evelopment ofc, making It more
fa special prolets
Fal Cost arg ‘Expenses suchas rent, eqdpment
rentals phone expenses, computers,
stage, recentionatsibued wth an
Fractal department are generaty
ot assgned back to that cost
conte.
Temurtng olty to cove rancal overs By
savings in ober departments.
Francia savings may fund overuns
other departments. Less
Incentive to exercise fiscal
Rx ‘The bureaucrc procs FOG
‘avons chess ae balances to
lat risky decsons orto contra
‘Baers finde ‘Some funding programs are Pak

Page 43.1 55

‘einaion ‘aration Fanci By ‘airsraions soearined
Corporation staf cudng the | through integration with cxunc
Scheauing of meetings, detbutton | meetings, thereby eirinatng board
‘St repert,recrdng of minutes, and | meetings and the assocted
Imalntenance of corporate recor. A | amilsralon Incorporation of
[Seporats set of auted books exists | finances wth Cy

‘ad the associated costs. cbminating 2 separate set of ated
UUmited coun input on business: | books end acnilsteton.
plan and aces. Counc has drect Input on business

plan and actives.

‘caabeaton “separate corporation Srucire | Operating as 2 department also
thevtably lead toa degre of | offers the potential to Inzease
[Solon of te corporation ard colabortion between departments
‘erecting of fas on eutsise body | and economic development, tours
‘nd tus less of the “oty tan." | and events staf

van Marketing activites are primarty | Opportunity for greater Ivan
eased on marketng esociated | Incmnmuntoatons and merketing.
wth econo
tourism ond spec events bd les
‘on conmunty serices/actvies and
ser hal

“cass Maniopal Exper | Generally ited or no Boast Gy | Abty to acces Gy expertise

tame reomem, [ome

| information techndboay,

‘Contracting onivacs wt vendors, mn yenr, | Gira wth vendors, Fmayear,
fyplealy do not ezand beyond the "| tyscally do not extend Beynd te
term of funding by cour. tem of coundl.
‘Generally the tem ofthe board

‘members e staggered ad there Is
‘fo changeover Of the ere board at
once.

‘Source: §-Thompson, EDAC White Paper, 2009

Municipal Economic Development Trends

(Over the past several years, many municipalities have taken a look at their own economic development

‘fameworks for the purpose of improving the effectiveness oftheir services. One ofthe key questions that
has been considered Is how to provide for beter coordination between both economic development and
planning felons occur within a community. Clven the interrelated nature ofthe two there seems to be a
{rend towards creating a frameworks that consolidates these activities within one department.

‘Two municipalities in particular ~ York Reglon and Hamlton- have undertaken an in
leading toa significant re-organization to this effect Understanding some of the key lessons learned by
these municipalities (operating in atworter and single ter context respectively) offers further insight for
cosideration.

York Region

‘The Regional Municipality of Yorks the upper tier munkcipal government that works together with nine
lower-ter muntepal governments including: Markham, Vaughan, Richmond Hil. Newmarket Aurors,
‘Georgina, Whitchureh-Stouffvile East Gwilimbury and King In 2009 It was home to approximately
11032650 people and had over 490,000 jobs. Like Waterloo Region, York Region has seen strong growth
‘over the past several decades and n 2009 was Canads's sixth largest municipality.

Page 44 01 58

Page 45 01 58

Given the two-tier system in which ft operates, the economic development framework includes both the
Region and the Area Municipalities, Each level of government plays a different role depending on thelr
‘mandate and svallabe resources. There are appresimately 35 people working at both the regional ané
{ocal level Parterships and collaboration are also key For example, there are total of four small
bosines centres within the region, with some of he larger municipalities hosting thelr own in addition to
the one at York Region, These small business centres often work together and share resources inorder to
host seminars and other events of mutual interest.

‘Toensure coordination of efforts, quarterly meeting s held with all ofthe Economic Development
(Ofcers from each ofthe municipalities inorder to discuss strategy. major programs or results. These
{eetings are beipful to assist inthe overall coordination ofthe various economic development activities
‘underway by each of the partners. (Note: in Eastern Ontario this is done in two ter Northumberiand
County, where the separate communities of Port Hope, Cobourg. Cramahe and Trent Hil strive to
Coordi tourism and ste selection efforts. Of adaitional not isthe fat that Brighton, while located in
‘Northumberland County, contracts the Quinte Economie Development Corporation for invetinent
_atracton services).

12000, the Region of York began to play a more active roe in economic development when ft assumed
‘esponsibility forthe promotion of tourism activites on a region-wide scale. In june 2005, York Region
‘approved an economle strategy that further refined ifs role. This strategy built upon thetr traditional
‘lundate to provide key economic information and included a more active role in both labour force
‘evelopment and investment atzraction ona broader scope.

‘Current, the economle development and community planning functions are allocated within one
‘department the Planning and Development Services department, which includes the folowing

+ Economie Strategy & Tourism:

* Long Range & Strategie Planning:

* Community Planning;

‘Infrastructure Planning: and Geomatics,

‘The mission/oal ofthis department isto “facilitate the evolution of healthy communities, a sustainable
‘natural environment and economic vtality by implementing responsive growth management practices,
Including costeflecive geographic information”.

“The Economic Strategy & Tourism branch also underwent a recent re-organization in order to deliver its
Tnandate “economic foresight and ineligence, implements Innovation enabling programs of relevance to
business and the communites, enables business development through advancing business creation and
cnsures growth through investment and marketing." The branch focuses on three key areas induding:

« Business Development (cluding the small business enterprise centre and tourism);
‘nvesunent& Export Development (including business advisors support for local manufacturers and
‘creation of marketing materials); and

‘Eeonomic Intelligence & Innovation (provides economic research & metrics, reporting and tracking and
|sthe primary user of information provided through the employment survey done bythe Long Range &
‘Strategie Planaing branch).

tn total there are 16 FTES. including the Director ofthe Economic Development and Tourism
Branch. In 2011 one of the primary tasks fortis branch sto update their economic development
‘Sratogy to relict the sretegic directions outlined in thelr "Vision 2026" Strategic Pan, Ofctal Pan
‘Srwellss anew vstoning exercise “Vision 2051" currently underway by the Lang Range & Strategic
Planning Branch.

Page 46.0 58

(One ofthe most interesting inftiatives that this branch has undertaken isthe “Aging Workforce Study”.
‘This $570,000 study was completed in partnership with Employment Ontario tn October 2008 and looks
[Bthe potential labour market challenges that could be faced by businesses as the workforce ages (suchas,
‘faffshortages loss of variable knowledge and contacts, increased recrultment costs, tc), Asa fallow-up
tothe stay, they have developed a toolkit fer employers that aims to help address these Issues. This is
‘one example of how the branch successfully accessed outside funding to undertake an nitive of

regional importance and has now broadened the impact ofthe workto develop an ongoing program.

City of Hamilton
‘The City of Hamlton sa single ter municipality with a population of over 500,000 people. Within the
Planning and Economic Development Department there are five key areas:

Development Engineering (Infrastructure Planning and Engineering Design and Construction);
‘industrial Parks and Alrport Development:

+ Planning (Community Planning and Development Planning);

{ Eeonomic Development and Real Estate (Business Development, Downtown and Community Renewal,

‘Brownfields Ofce and Real Estate) and

+ Economie Development Advisor (Sr. Advisor to Counc, General Manager, Director of

‘Economic Development and Real Estat). a

In 2007 staf submitted a report entitled “Economic Development: Moving Forward: Governance Review,
‘Change, Engagement with Community and Enhanced Investment Funding (iy Wide)" tothe

‘and Members of the Commitee of the Whole. This report included several recommendations
Felated toa previous background study completed (reviewing the City’s economic development functions
‘dnd governance model), confirmation ofthe reorganized economic development framework and the
{reatlon of «new advisory board, and the issues pertaining tothe budget, economic development fand
‘snd several key inftiatives. To this end since 2007 the Cy of Hamiton has operated within what is
‘Seemed a hybrid” model that “combines the best features ofboth 2 municipal Economic Development
Department and a stand-alone private Development Corporation’. This model Includes two main
components:

+ APrivate Business Advisory Commitee providing strategic direction and policy advice to Council on
‘major economic development issues; and

‘An Beonomle Development Office tat ishighl integrated into the Planning and Economic Development
Department and provides superior business services to existing and new companies.

‘The Hamatton Eeonomle Development Strategy (2010-2015) sts four fundamental principles: Imovatio,
iversiiation, entrepreneurship and the “Quadruple Bottom Line". The Quadruple bottom line approach
‘considers not only econom, environmental and social values and their role inthe sustainable
evelopment ofa community, but also adds “culture” ac 3 fourth pla. To this end, there are six areas of
focus in thelr strategy, Induding:

+ Infrastructure for Innovation:
* Community Development;

* Qualty of Lite:

+ Workdorce Development:

* Business Development; and
+ Marketing and Outreach.

\Wothin each ofthese focus areas there ae various initiatives underway. In 2007 it was recommended that
‘anaddtional $15 milion be added tothe annual operating budget for additonal staf financial
‘ontrbutions to supporting organizations, nd marketing activities. Further, itshould be noted that as
partof ther economic development strategy Implementation and delivery, a detailed Marketing Strategy
[EAction Plan was also developed. This lan included quantitative research (online surveys with the

bsiness community surveys with economic development practitioners, and stakeholder interviews).
‘They also performed strategic planning workshops with each of their key sectors, held focus groups with
ther BA's and did a review of other community marketing models. This background worked toan in
‘depth and comprehensive marketing strategy inorder to promote the City’s new Image of “happening,
‘iorant innovative, proud and beautiful” community. These efforts wil focus on providing an “integrated”
land consistent message that wil extent throughout each communication outlet, including; the Internet
{rebsites, olin sites, youtube, social media, online advertising) They wil use high quality photography
{forallthelr printed materials tobe used for digital presentation, tradeshows, and for advertising and all
‘other media and PR exercises. Further they wil continue to develop thelr Partner Communications
Program

“The Action Plan further segregates specific target audiences including "Your Backyard existing
‘businesses and employees residents and stadent. They wil also focus on Canada and The World divided
along ley sectors (Agriculture & Agr-food/Agr-Based products, Biosciences, Clean-Tech, Creative
Industries, Advances Manufacturing and Goods Movements). To ths end they have identified over 8
diferent programs focusing onthe “backyard” market, and over 13 objectives specially focused on the
(Canada and The World Market. These action items can allbe measured to determine whether or not the
‘objectives have been reached and inchide specifi reporting criteria so that progress can be tracked year
toyear.

Additional Commentary
‘Highlights: Municipal structure or separate corporation fr economic development

[Non Proft Corporation:
‘> More opportunity for community Input through involvement of profesional business expertise,
‘External corporation benefits by being more closely aligned with private business practice
‘2 lected offical input is critical for strategic and implementation developmentto ensure “buy-in”

‘and support of Corporation activities

‘+ Separate corporation has focus on strategic plan outcomes, not pottical “pet projects”
Non-Profit Corporations are able to access government funds notavalabe to municipalities (Le,
FedDev Ontario - Prosperity Fund)

‘© Corporate model allows for more agressive approach with investor advocacy and ability to take
Fish to secure investment opportuaties

‘+ Non-proft development corporations are subject tothe Municipal Act when dealing with
‘munidpally owned land sales oF leases. But may have some flexibility depending on case.

‘+ lows for maltiple municipalities to partner in economic development efforts regardless of,
‘seographic boundaries and population. (Partnerships with population threshold above 100,000
[have most opportunity fr success - the regional non-profit economic development agencies in
Peterborough (City of Peterborough and County of Peterborough) and Quinte (Belleville, Quinte
‘West, Brighton) are local examples with historic success.

Munlipal

‘+ Aconsortium of municipalities working together provides advantages for co-marketing and
leveraging government funding.

‘+ Key to succes Is clear understanding of oes and open, consistent communications.

‘2 lected officals often more “bands on” In municipal model, this canbe postive but more often is
negative, depending understanding of the economic development profession and business and
marketing sills brought tothe table by the individual

‘+ Perception that economic development is priority for council and provided with government
oversight.

10

Page 47 of 58

Considerations in Developing the Right Economic Development Dell

‘Overall based on this review, there are four key themes that emerge relating tothe e«
development framework. These include; obectives, implementation resources and m
Usted below are several discussion questions that explore these themes:

1) How does the existing framework impact economic development objectives?

How are common objectives determined?
© How do each of the economic development strategie plans complement, support or
‘© conflict with eachother?

Does the current framework aid or hinder acheverent ofeach partner's common
objectives?

2) How does the existing framework impact the implementation of economic development activities?

© Whotsalways atthe table?
‘Who tends to take on leadership roles?

{How do the mandates distinguish those witha “delivery focus vs.those who ply a primarily
“enabling role?

‘© Whatare the major gaps or areas overlapping/ambiguous responsibilities?

‘> When issues are communicated to one organization partner, how isthe rest of the network
robilzed to ind creative solutions?

‘+ fallparties are involved in making these stratopes a reality, whol really responsible for
Inplementation?

‘+ How s the existing framework viewed by the actual business community tha the economic
development functions are intended to serve?

‘+ Does the business community rally know how to access the services and resources that are
avallable?

3) How are resources allocated for economic development initatives?

‘© Whatisthe typical split of resources (budget time, staff) each organization allocates between
“partnering” initiatives and the implementation of core mandated projects initiatives?

‘+ Areweleveraging our collective resources as best we can? Are we accessing upper

‘level government funding as efectively as we could be?

‘= Whatisthe flow of funding from one organization to another?

‘4) How s economle development progress monitored?

‘+ How it known ifthe collective objectives have been achleved?
‘How can progress be measured progress? How is succes o failure recognized?
‘+ Where's the ultimate accountability?

Page 49.01 58

Brockville Opportunity

‘The Clty of Brockville has established an effective municipal delivery model utilizing limited resources
‘and funding In order to enhance capabilites, leverage funding opportunities and compete with provincial
‘and global Competitors to attract and sustain employment and economic wealth, the City of Brockvle is
‘Sacoureged to explore further, and perhaps develop formal delivery models wth neighbouring
‘murals. The regional non-proft model wth private sector participation on advisory board would
Sppearto be a good prospect for this area. There I 2 natural geographic synergy with Leeds & Grenville, a
partnership meets the typical 100,000 population threshold for regional models, and iis likely that
‘Mrorklow patterns wil Indleate that people live and work seamlessly in both municipalities - Le,
‘econorle opportunities and jb creation provide benefts beyond geographic boundaries,

{tis recommended that local champion initiate formal discussions and undertake a community,
‘consultation process to promote concepts and determine interest and viabilty.

Page 5001 58

‘Salary Comparisons

‘An environmental scan of salaries indicates that there is minimal discrepancy in salaries between
the delivery models, In essence, any model must pay competitive wages to attract silled
‘economic development professionals. The corporate model is typically not restrained by unions,
Collective agreements, established non-management wage scales, and depending on level of
‘munletpal funding, may not be subject tothe annual Public Sector Salary Disclosure regulations
(sunshine ist).

‘Staffing Levels Comparison (Community Size)

a.

‘Smell Communities _Mié-Sized_—_LargeCommunities_AllCommunities
(lessthan 50,000 Communities {morethan 150,000
people) _(50,000t0150,000 people)
people)

1 Director of eonomic Development | Economic Development officer
Business Development Officer © Tourism Marketing Officer
|B Economic Development Researcher

‘Source: MDB Salary Survey 2010

‘Staffing Levels - Eastern Ontario Comparators

2011 Average Ec. Dev staff (not including
tourism) per 10,000 population

oc

wldillthi

2011 Total Staff (Not including tourism or
enterprise)

Page 51 of 58


‘Comparison - Eastern Ontario Staffing & Per Capita Budget Details

| aii
ae : d fs
ea Cite
ence [aman ad ad Toda
eeowal add cys
oe ee ee ae ee

99 )028 abe

Page 53.01 58
References Resources

‘Canadian Papers in Economic Development, Volume 12, fd. Parker & Carvalho

Delivery Models of Local Economic Development An Anaiysis of Internal and External Models in

Ontario (Thompson, 2009)

‘Hamilton: Bconomic Development: MOVING FORWARD

Governance Review, Organtzational Change, Engagement with

Community and Enhanced Investment Funding (2007)

‘York Region's Role in Economic Development (2005)

‘2010 National Salary Survey of the Economic Development Profession, (Millie Dickinson Blas)

{Quinte Economic Development Commission (2011)
Report Excerpts ~ Salary/Stafing Eastern Ontario

CITY OF BROCKVILLE

=O WORKPLAN
= RETENTION/ATTRACTION
WATERFRONT TRY SARY LIFESTYLE - FESTIVALS
‘MENTAL HEALTH CENTRE
WATER STR. REALIGNMENT
LAND ASSEMBLY
BLACK & DECKER
ZELLERS MALL
‘ABBOTTS
IMMIGRATION
‘SMALL BUSINESS ENTERPRISE,

GREAT WATERWAY—— EOED NFP —— AQUATARIUM—— CHAMBER OF COMMERCE —— UCLG

REGION (TOURISM) (MARKETING) RIVERQUEST CAMPUS APPROACH. REGIONAL EDP. DEV
BED TAX COMMISSION BLNATIONAL —_ (TOURISM) BROCKVILLE
(TOURISM) NFP — WHITEPAPER(2012)

‘TOURISM ADVISORY

99 )0 96 266

Page 5501 58

United Counties of
Useds ond Grerle

renville Eaemaes™

MEDIA RELEASE

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
‘May 22,2014

The highlights ofthe regular United Counties of Leeds and Grenville Council Meeting held May 2 are
sted below.

Housing Plan approved: & 10-year Housing Plan for Leeds and Grenville has been approved . The pan
‘tines how various housing programs operated within the Leeds and Grenvile wil be maintained and
‘enhanced from 2014 to 2024. The document, which is approumately 130 pages required bythe
Misty of Municipal Afar and Housing

‘ison Tutak whois Director of Human Services sai the main aspects ofthe plan are maintenance and
enhancement of the region's $87 rent geared to income housing Units including 67 owned and
‘managed by the Human Services Division. A third aspect of the plan willbe public involvement so there is
Informed participation

Within the Leeds and Gren there are varous housing programs and support systems, These include:
‘et geare-o-income rent, affordable housing, supportive housing, homelessness prevention benefits,
housing allowance, Ontario Renovates and Home ownership programs, and a fve emergency shelter
Units, Other action tems of the plan are using GreenSaver and other energy-saving programs, to develop
{an asset management plan and database, wark cosely with Leeds & GrenfileIntenval House and earmark
home ownership funds for Habitat for Humanity fais, to name just fe.

‘A&this time the pln snot caling for commitment of additonal esources, For more information
‘contact Alison Tutak, Director of Human Services, at 613-342-3840, ext, 2305.

Economic Development steering committee formed: Members ofa steering committee to review the
United Counties of Leeds and Grenville Economic Development Department have been named,

“Members include Counties Council members Roger Haley (Front of Yonge, Frank Killa (Leeds and the
‘Thousand islands), Dave Gordon (North Grenwil)im Pickard (Elzabethtown-Xitley).Ooug Struthers
(Merickle-Wolford) and Warden Ron Holman (ex-officio),

‘The Counties estabished economic development programming approximately 10 years ago. During 2014
‘budget ciscussions, Councl agreed to undetake 2 revew ofthe department. The commitee wil look at
the curent role ofthe department and wil evew fit signs with goals ofthe Counties. t wil also look at
performance measures and structure. During the review the commtee wil consult with local

‘municipal, including councis, economic development committees and staf. A reports to come back

Page 56.01 58

renville

‘May 22,2014

to Counties Counc this al. For more information contact Chet Administrative Offcer Andy Brown at
615-342-3840, ext. 2301.

Counties approve more than $5-milln in road work: Rood improvement contracts totalling just over
‘5-millon have been approved by Counties Cound

The approvals fr work includes $3.1-milion in paving contacts, $1.1-millon ia micro surfacing and
$830.00 in surace weatment forthe easter side ofthe Counties

oad work contracts fr the wes side ofthe Counties wl be approved in June. For more information
contact Les Shepherd, Director of Works, Panning Senices and Asset Management. at 613-342-3840, et
22,

Land purchased for future road widening: Counties Counc has passed aby aw to alow the purchase
land from the Catholic District School Board of Easter Ontario and the Municipality of North Greville
song County Road 3 in Kemprvle

‘The land purchase wil accommodate Hydro One relocating nes, the eventual widening ofthe road to
{our anes and sidewalk installation The Counties incurred a legal and suvey costs asocited with the
transfer. Survey and plan regisvation were completed in 2013

For more information contact Les Shepherd, Director of Works Planning Services and Asset Management,
3 613-342-3840, ext 2412.

Upcoming meetings: Committee ofthe Whole on Tuesday, June 3 Joint Services on Wednesday June 4:
‘Counties Council on Thursday, June 18. All meetings begin at 9 arm. in the council chambers at 25 Central
‘Avenue, Brockville, For more information contact County Clerk Lesley Todd at 613-342-3840, ext. 2454

-30-

Media nguies:
Deanna Clk Comunity Infomation Offer Media Releases,
Une Counties of teed Grenvle

32 Wall tet Sute 300,

‘roche, ON KBV 489

613-342-380, 5360 Deannaca@ulgonca

age?

