[al Economic Development, Recreat

on -*- ee n &
BROCKVILLE Tourism Committee (EDRTC)
IN OFTHE G88 SANDS Tuesday, December 4, 2018, 7:00 pm.
COMMITTEE MINUTES City Hall - Council Chambers

Committee Members:
Councillor J. Fullarton, Chair
Councillor M. Wren

T. Barnes

Mayor J. Baker, Ex-Officio

Absent:
J. Barabash

Other Council Members:
Councillor C. Wales

Staff:
C. Cosgrove, Director of Operations

S. MacDonald, City Clerk

L. Murray, Deputy City Clerk (Recording Secretary)
M. Pascoe Merkley, Interim City Manager

R. Nolan, Director of Economic Development

L. White, Manager of Strategic Initiatives

The Chair called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm.

DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST
Nil.

DELEGATIONS AND PRESENTATIONS
1. Municipal Accommodation Tax

Pat Markovich representing the Chamber of Commerce and Tourism
addressed the committee regarding the allocation of the MAT tax.

Jason would like a copy of the presentation circulated to the
committee. (a copy of the presentation is attached to the minutes)
CHAMBER TOURISM ORGANIZATION PRELIM STRATEGIC PLAN
OVERVIEW Dec 5 (3)

Page 1 of 11

Economic Development, Recreation & Tourism Committee (EDRTC) Agenda
December 4, 2018

CORRESPONDENCE & COMMUNICATIONS
Nil.

REPORTS FROM BOARDS AND COMMITTEES
Nil.

STAFF REPORTS

1. 2018-123-12
2019 Tall Ships Festival Update

Moved by: T. Barnes

THAT the Tall Ships Committee provide financial reports to the
EDRTC in March 2019 and June 2019.

CARRIED

L. White summarized the report for the committee. Lesley will
circulate an updated budget.

2018-128-12
Proposed Allocation of the
Municipal Accommodation Tax

Moved by: Councillor Wren

1. THAT the following allocation of the Municipal Accommodation Tax
(MAT) be endorsed;

Allocation ~ subject to annual approval by Counc!

Funds received from the MAT, as at December 31st each year, will
be allocated as follows:

1. 50% to the City of Brockville for tourism-related assets and
activities.

IL, 50% to the local Destination Marketing Organization (DMO) for
Increased marketing support of local festivals and new product
development.

Page 2 of 11

Economic Development, Recreation & Tourism Committee (EDRTC) Agenda
December 4, 2018

2. THAT $50,000 of the 2018 MAT receipts, before the formula is
applied, is allocated to the Aquatarium as authorized by Council
resolution at the Council meeting of Tuesday, July 24th, 2018. Of
the balance of the 2018 MAT receipts, the City of Brockville’s 50%
shall be allocated to the Aquatarium;

3. THAT the DMO report to EDRTC annually with a costed business plan
of how the MAT funds will be spent;

4. THAT the DMO report to EDRTC annually with the outcomes from the
money spent;

5, THAT the DMO will provide annual audited financial statements to
the City of Brockville related to MAT revenues and expenses;

6. THAT no fee be charged by the City for administration of the MAT.
CARRIED, AS AMENDED ON A LATER VOT
Motion to Amend
Moved by: T. Barnes
THAT paragraphs I and II in Clause 1. be reversed.
CARRIED
The vote on the original motion, as amended, was now taken and the
motion, as amended, was carried.
‘Amended Motion
Moved by: Councillor Wren

1. THAT the following allocation of the Municipal Accommodation Tax
(MAT) be endorsed;

Allocation ~ subject to annual approval by Council

Funds received from the MAT, as at December 31st each year, will
be allocated as follows:

Page 3 of 11

Economic Development, Recreation & Tourism Committee (EDRTC) Agenda
December 4, 2018

1, 50% to the local Destination Marketing Organization (DMO) for
Increased marketing, support of local festivals and new product
development.

II. 50% to the City of Brockville for tourism-related assets and
activities.

2. THAT $50,000 of the 2018 MAT receipts, before the formula is
applied, is allocated to the Aquatarium as authorized by Council
resolution at the Council meeting of Tuesday, July 24th, 2018. Of
the balance of the 2018 MAT receipts, the City of Brockville’s 50%
shall be allocated to the Aquatarium;

3. THAT the DMO report to EDRTC annually with a costed business plan
of how the MAT funds will be spent;

4. THAT the DMO report to EDRTC annually with the outcomes from the
money spent;

5. THAT the DMO will provide annual audited financial statements to
the City of Brockville related to MAT revenues and expenses;

6. THAT no fee be charged by the City for administration of the MAT.

CARRIED

NEW BUSINESS - REPORTS FROM MEMBERS OF COUNCIL
Nil.

EDRTC - CONSENT AGENDA
Nil.

MEDIA QUESTION PERIOD

Page 4 of 11

Economic Development, Recreation & Tourism Committee (EDRTC) Agenda
December 4, 2018

ADJOURNMENT
Moved by: Councillor Wren

THAT the Economic Development, Recreation and Tourism Committee
adjourn its meeting until the next meeting scheduled for January 15, 2019.

CARRIED

The meeting adjourned at 7:56 pm.

Page 5 of 11

(CHAMBER OF COMMERCE TOURISM ORGANIZATION
PREUMINARY STRATEGIC PLAN ~ DECEMBER 2019

Overview:

Brockulle& 1000 Islands Tourism Organization is Brocklle's sole mandate is to promote the attraction
‘of visitors to the municipality which includes encouraging the development of tourism products to
stimulate and enhance visitor spending and city wide economic well-being. 100% of the funding
provided by the City of Brockville, via the MAT, will be used forthe exclusive purpose of promoting
tourism with a strategic focus on the industry. This includes culture, leisure travel, and sport/recreation
tourism as well as meeting and convention sectors for both group travel and Free Independent
Travellers (I)

‘The strategies outlined inthis plan are dependent on the separate and addtional funding for Tourism
via the Municipal Accommodation Tax (MAT], and the Tourism Long Term Strategic Action Plan currently
being developed by the MDB Insights Consultants.

‘Additional funding willbe used to expand opportunities fr the businesses, and attractions in Brockville
‘and work towards the creation of adltional loca obs. Overall it wll provide an opportunity for
Brockville to compete in avery competitive tourism market and an opportunity for increased economic
prosperity in the Cty of Brackvil

Organizational structure:

Brockulle& 1000 Islands Tourism works under the auspices ofthe Brockuille & District Chamber of
‘Commerce. The ity of Brackiille has contracted the Chamber since 2002 to provide tourism services for
the City of Brockile. Assisted by 2 Tourism Advisory Board, Brockville & 1000 Islands Tourism
represents the City of Brockville on the world stage, and is the DMO member ofthe Regional Tourism
Organization R708

Brockulle& 1000 Islands Tourism works together with more than 300 tourism-related businesses,
‘events, and conferences to profile Brockville as adverse and exciting place to visit. From the city’s
cultural gems, to award-winning attractions and restaurants, Brockville $1000 Islands Tourism works to
showcase all of what Brockville has to offer.

A Growth Opportunity

‘These additional funds will serve to promote Brockulle on a wider geographical bass, and also to
promote Brockulle asa year-round destination. This plan detalis a marketing strategy which employs 2
balance of digital advertising with print advertising in both relevant, geographic, specialty publications,
‘and other promotional opportunites in order to significantly expand opportunities and remain
‘competitive.

Enhanced spending and performance wil serve to:
‘+ Facilitate incremental business opportunites that otherwise could not be successfully attained

‘+ Increase day and overnight visitations and grow revenue, improve occupancy and average dally
rates forthe Brockville hospitality industry

Page 6 of 11

Increase the number of business conventions and delegate spending.

‘Stimulate an increased interest in Brockville to host significant sporting, culture and
Leverage investment, increase economic growth, and jab creation

Contribute to branding Brockville asa vibrant, liveable city and stimulate growth

Various studies conclude that an accommodation taxis a proven and successful business strategy that
fuels tourism growth and leverages funding that have the capacity to yield more tourism revenue for the
‘community. 8y focusing on the promotion and development of tourism and destination travel by
tourists, conventions, delegates and other business travelers, attracting sport and cultural events to
Brockaille will not only stimulate economic growth and job creation but substantially proliferate
Brockulle's reputation asa nationally recognized visitor destination,

‘The MAT provides a significant advantage to Brochlle ast enables Brockulle to compete successfully
{or tourism business with competitor tourism organizations in Ont
‘operational and MAT funding, as wel as tou

io who operate with more
sm organizations throughout the county.

MAT provides the DMO with an opportunity for increased leveraging with grants from government and
RTO. This growth apportunty can and will contribute exponentially to economic development in
Brockville and in the process bolster civic pride and quality of if fr all ctzens.

Long Term Strategy & Action Plan:
Brockville Tourism contracted a consultancy frm in August of 2018 and iin the process of developing 3
Long Term Strategy and action plan that wil guide the direction of tourism in Brockville for the next five
years. As of December 2018 the consultants have engaged in a number of one-on-one interviews,
stakeholder group sessions and surveys 2s wel as reviewing relevant city dacuments and past studies. A
preliminary reports expected in January of 2019, At the conclusion ofthis process Tourism will work to
refine the direction and targeting of te planned promotional components contained in this report in
terms of demographic sectors, touriem sectors, and as directed by the consultant’ findings. Tourism will
present the finalized strategic plans in a frequency dictated by the Economic Development, Recreation
‘and Tourism Committee and Council at large

Plan Component Overview:

Digital Marketing:
Social Media

Print

Product Development/Target Market
Other Promotional

Performance / Analytics

Page 7 of 11

Details on Plan Components:
1. Digital Marketing
‘The statistics relevant to digital marketing include:

Dally media consumption:
‘+ 49% of digital media consumption is through mobile devices,
‘+ The digital customers online 7.6 hours a day as follows:

28% surfing social mea

249% on email

239% Surfing content

19% surfing video

{6% online shopping

1% searching

Digital Marketing Goa:
Engage in more robust digital marketing campaigns that expand breadth and depth of coverage

Brockville Digital Marketing Campaign - Best campaigns are $60 -$80K which could be achieved
‘through matching grant programs and put us in line with campaigns run in Gananoque, Kingston,
and other destinations in south eastern Ontario.

Brackuille can graduate from “Good Level” to “Best Level’, which is moving from 1.75 millon
impressions ta 2.6 million impressions and S events that can be targeted. Ahigher level of digital
Impressions would allow further programmatic advertising technology opportunity, and better
targeting with digital ads, when a visitor:

‘+ senline looking for Srockille ora competitor's offerings, targeting prospects that are
researching locations right now. (Behavioral)

“+ has identified themselves asa specific audience we want to target based on interests,
incame, or atherfrmographic / demographic information (Persona HO)

‘+ satan event that Brockville would ike to target (Event Targeting /Geofencing)

1+ has gone to‘and let from aur website (Site Retargeting

‘+ Isreading industry blogs, forums, and site they go to regularly (Sector Targeting)

‘+ Is surfing the web at work (Company Targeting

isin our consumer or industry e-mail database today

Tour Group Target for Digital Campaign: Participate in OMCA Digital E-Newsletter Advertising
Banner

‘+ Distribution: 812 Subscribed Motor Coach Professionals

‘+ Frequency: Weekly

Page 8 of 11

