Page 1 of 41

ral aps has been Economic Development and
BEAT ITTE ‘published to add Planning Committee
BROCKVILLE Scieoston ns Tuesday, November 6, 2018, 4:15 pm

EaVOFHE IOODISLANDS Report 2018-115.
Tt has been City Hall, Council Chambers
reviged for clit

Committee Members
Councillor M. Kalivas, Chair
Councillor J. Baker

Areas of Responsibility
Economic Development

Planning

Councillor L. Bursey

Councillor D. LeSueur Chamber of Commerce
DBIA

Mayor D. Henderson,

Ex-Officio Heritage Brockville

Page COMMITTEE AGENDA
Disclosure of Interest
Delegations and Presentations

Municipal Accommodation Tax
Joint Chamber and Accommodation Presentation

Carlie Sommerdyk, Ida Duc, Rob Thompson, Pam Robertson,
Katherine Hobbs, Jessica Barabash and Pat Markovitch will address
the committee regarding the MAT.

Municipal Accommodation Tax
Bonnie Ruddock, Regional Tourism Office #9

B. Ruddock will speak to the Ontario Government and hierarchy of
tourism via the RTO's.

3, Municipal Accommodation Tax
Francine Dunn

F. Dunn wishes to speak to the Committee regarding the Municipal
Accommodation Tax.

12-13

14-36

37-41

Page 2 of 41

Economic Development and Planning Committee
November 6, 2018

Correspondence

Notice of Disposal of Prince of Wales Public School
(Upper Canada District School Board)

Reports from Boards and Committees
Nil.

Staff Reports

1. 2018-16-11
Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment
103 Broome Road, Part of Lot H, Plan 332,
Being Parts 1 to 7, RP 28R-12720, City of Brockville
Owner: 2581027 Ontario Inc. Applicant: J. Norton
File No: D14-032

THAT the C6-2 Power Centre Special Exception Zone of Zoning By-
law 050-2014 for lands described as Part of Lot H, Plan 332, City of
Brockville, County of Leeds, being Parts 1 to 7, RP 28R-12720 with
‘municipal address 103 Broome Road, be amended, to permit an
“Automobile Repair Garage”, with the accessory sale of a maximum
of 12 used vehicles, in addition to all other permitted uses and a
maximum of two (2) "Sea-Cans” for storage purposes associated
with the business.

THAT the request for exemption from the requirement to pave the
parking area, be denied.

2018-115-11
Proposed Allocation of the
Municipal Accommodation Tax

THAT the proposed allocation of the Municipal Accommodation Tax
(MAT) be received;

THAT Stakeholders be advised to provide written response to the
proposed allocation to the Manager of Strategic Initiatives by
November 16th;

THAT a MAT implementation working group of not more than five
members, as determined by the TAC, be struck;

Page 3 of 41

Economic Development and Planning Committee
November 6, 2018

THAT a MAT implementation working group consult with the Chair of
the Economic Development and Planning Committee and the
Director of Economic Development of the implementation of the
MAT by November 23rd;

THAT staff report back to December EDP Committee with the final
MAT allocation after considering written responses and
recommendation on the implementation;

Proposed Allocation

THAT the allocation of MAT proceeds are subject to annual approval
by Council;

THAT the funds received from the MAT, as at December 31st each
year, be allocated as follows:

1. 50% up to a maximum of $200,000 to the Aquatarium;

2. 50% of the balance, to be disbursed to new projects, new or
existing festivals as seed money, based on recommendations
from the Tourism Advisory Committee (TAC);

a. Projects to be one-time allocations or a maximum of
two years with entity not able to apply in the third year;

b. Recommendations to include financial summary of
previous year’s usage of funds (if applicable);

. Applications with financial information will be received
by the City of Brockville each November, compiled and
forwarded to the TAC for evaluation. The
recommendations will be presented by the TAC annually
in January to EDP Committee, and then to Council for
approval. Funds will be disbursed by the City of
Brockville.

d. Council reserves the right to full discretionary control of
all funding.

3. 40% of the balance, to the TAC for additional marketing;
a. City assets must be included in all marketing
(Aquatarium, Tunnel, Brockville Arts Centre, Museum,
Library and Municipal Harbour)

Page 4 of 41

Economic Development and Planning Committee
November 6, 2018

4, 10% of the balance, to the City Tourism Infrastructure
Reserve. A reserve intended to be used for tourism-related
opportunities that are unknown when seed funds are allocated
each year (Item 2). These funds will be disbursed by Council
and may not need to be fully disbursed each year;

THAT $50,000 of the 2018 MAT receipts, before the formula is
applied, is allocated to the Aquatarium as authorized by Council
resolution at the Council meeting of Tuesday, July 24th, 2018; and
THAT no fee be charged by the City for administration of the MAT.

New Business - Reports from Members of Council
Nil.

Consent Agenda
Media Question Period
Adjournment

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee adjourned its
‘meeting until the next regular meeting scheduled for December 4, 2018.

11/2/2018
Page 5 of 41

Joint Chamber and Accomodation
Presentation

jember 6th, 2

Background

“Tourism Advisory Committee worked to facitatea Destination
Marketing Partnership ovr the past o years inorder tobe
‘ompetive ith the marketing spend Gananoque, Kingston and
others

In Api 2017 the province gave municpaltiesthe ight to set upa
Municipal Accomodations Tax (MAT) in ordertohelpthem
promote their municipality 5a key destination

In 2038, Broce Councl yotedinthe MAT at arate of 4% an all
roofed accomadations begining May , 2018

Counc now has a determine how they wllbest manage this
Fevenuewithinthe parameters ofthe Ontario Municipal Act


11/2/2018
Page 6 of 41

Challenge

Brock Tourism curently underspends its neighbours
{Gseanogue an Kingston teat factor a0 when comes

‘As aresult Broce’ visblty to potential vistors poor when
‘Srparedwthur nighbourtgmonepaiter
Boch hasinvested heavily in bling tourism assets over the
posto years,
Brockile Counc is challenge with asset overspend shortfalls
skigowng demandsfortarerene
‘According tothe Municipal ct, MAT evenues are restricted to
‘he folowing expeiure:

"to adeed ort Destewton Meng eon

“Tour increases revenue spent locally and signcantly support
Teatiploymnent opportnies, "so peer

Opportunities

* Accomodations

National and internationalhotel operatorshave very limited local
‘adverting dollars a they are supported trough nations.
‘Reverting via thairhead ofices
‘With inreased marketing exposure, they could row more vistors
{atop Broce when toveling tote events,

Simallinns and 8 and B's greatly influence where tourist spend
ther dole ° m

‘Dect elation with lets means that they can nln the
‘hing that guess shoulda ad do ding he stay


11/2/2018
Page 7 of 41

Opportunities
*Tourism

oll spent to daw stars to Brockile

Broce #7 in Canada on

las ative ving index.
ours in Brockvl cu
Focused ad

through bot es

ngs in s49M peryearand

More facured visor attraction te Srockileincreases

‘Brockviletoursm has leamad to leverage e's

Opportunities

Tourism
Ontario


11/2/2018
Page 8 of 41

“Tourism related busineses are more sucessful and this euccest
enigorates our downtown and wateont.

Increased Employment
Benefits of Greater Cty grows more attractive to businesses trying to attract
nae ‘employees from outside the area
Ccizen Impacts are sigan:
Tncremed local ride wat toshow ff out fay and ends

foes ever czen becomes on wrbsadr for

Establish a set municipal administration fee

Divide remaining MAT funde a follows:

‘Atleat ot tobe pert on marketing and advertising forthe
‘ila purpose of promoting Broce

Recommendation Upto3s¥6tobeused ornew asset develogment
UptozsSetobeused forsmaliacl fests andevents

ALL funds tobe spent according tothe t's Tourism Strategy
‘uvrentlyindevelopment-

Fullaccountablty of MAT expenditures through coun


11/2/2018
Page 9 of 41

Benefits of

greater focus

ee
77@°.
Scattered Approach
e e

e@-,e

a sty
‘Fick and choose based on tte
vegies sao!

Proce:

Setup the Brockvil Toursm Commitee (BTC ae formal
‘committee of Counc
“Ts commie wl plc the exiting Tora Advitry Board ond
unthoe»detreporing ltioahiptsCaunal
“The BTC" willbe strategy dven working with councilors and
-Aafftoencur alltouem related acti are coordinated in one

“This committee wil have key responsbilties as fllows:
ance and eccueting review
‘ase Development


11/2/2018
Page 10 of 41

Brockville City Council

ouncapproval
AT cata puch
Tarsmstatese Pan
Setup prametrsorthe formation ofthe Broce Toursm
Gommttee
Next Steps Seca
‘Spering Poles and Gudeies
Determine allocationsof MAT oe effective for 2039
The bo oop ond thao rims
Sup qcelnes nd recs forested tem re
Fehon


11/2/2018
Page 11 of 41

Working
together to

make it
#betterinbrockvi


Page 12 of 41

October 5, 2018

City of Brockville
PO Box 5000 LCD Main
Brockville, ON

K6V 7A5,

‘Attention: Clerk

NOTICE OF PROPOSAL TO SELL, LEASE, OR OTHERWISE
DISPOSE OF REAL ESTATE

‘The Upper Canada District School Board (the “Board”) has declared the following real property
(the *Property’) as surplus to the Board's needs:

Prince of Wales Public School
210 Pearl Street West
Brockville, Ontario K6V 4C8

In accordance with Ministry of Education Regulation 444/98 as amended your body is
considered a preferred entity with a prioritized ranking of 10. The Board is required to issue
the Board's proposal to sell the Property at fair market value to you and to all other preferred
entities before the Board may sell, lease, or otherwise dispose of the Property through public,
sale, lease, or other means,

Pursuant to Ontario Regulation 444/98 as amended, you may submit to the Board an.
expression of interest (the “EOI’) in response to this proposal before the expiration of ninety
(90) days after the day on which the Board has issued this proposal (the “Due Date”). The Due
Date for delivery to the Board of an EO! for this proposal is January 3, 2019. The EOI must
‘comply with the requirements of Section 6(2) of Ontario Regulation 444/98 as amended,

If your body will not be submitting an EO! to the Board in response to this proposal, please
‘complete and return to the Board the enclosed “Notice to Decline Proposal” form, duly signed
‘at your earliest convenience.

We thank you in advance for your time and consideration of this proposal.

Yours truly,

Stephen Sliwa
Director of Education

cena nee er TT Te TEST — Far SSS


Page 13 of 41

NOTICE TO DECLINE PROPOSAL

TO: Upper Canada District School Board

‘THE UNDERSIGNED hereby acknowiedges receipt of the proposal of the Upper
Canada District School Board (the “Board”) to sell, lease, or dispose of the
following real property:

Prince of Wales Public School
210 Pearl Street West
Brockville, Ontario K6V 4C8

‘THE UNDERSIGNED hereby declines to submit to the Board an expression of
interest in response to the proposal before the expiration of ninety (90) days
after the day on which the Board issued the proposal.

DATED at _. the day of __ ,201_.

SIGNATURE

NAME ronse rans

ORGANIZATION NAME pinse ran

Page 14 of 41

O1November2018
REPORT TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE

06 NOVEMBER 2018

2018-116-11

PROPOSED ZONING BY-LAW AMENOMENT D.oIck
103 BROOME ROAD DIRECTOR OF PLANNING (Acting)
PART OF LOT H, PLAN 332, BEING ANDREW MCGINNIS.
PARTS 1 TO 7, RP 28R-12720, PLANNER II

CITY OF BROCKVILLE.
OWNER: 2581027 ONTARIO INC.
APPLICANT: J. NORTON

FILENO.: — D14-032,s0:019

RECOMMENDATION

1. THAT the C6-2 Power Centre Special Exception Zone of Zoning By-law 050-
2014 for lands described as Part of Lot H, Plan 332, City of Brockville, County of
Leeds, being Parts 1 to 7, RP 28R-12720 with municipal address 103 Broome
Road, be amended, to permit an “Automobile Repair Garage", with the accessory
sale of a maximum of 12 used vehicles, in addition to all other permitted uses
‘and a maximum of two (2) “Sea-Cans” for storage purposes associated with the
business.

2. THAT the request for exemption from the requirement to pave the parking area,
be denied

PURPOSE

The purpose of this report is to provide recommendation on an application respecting
103 Broome Road, to amend City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 as it relates to
the subject property.

BACKGROUND

Mr. J. Norton, acting on behalf of 2581027 Ontario Inc., has submitted an application for
‘amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 with respect to lands
described as Part of Lot H, Plan 332, being Parts 1 to 7, Reference Plan 28R-12720,
City of Brockville, County of Leeds, with municipal address of 103 Broome Road. The
site is located at the northeast comer of Parkedale Avenue and Broome Road and
currently occupied by “Brockville Oil and Tires".

‘The application proposes an amendment to the current C8-2 Power Centre Special
Exception Zone to permit major vehicle repairs and used car sales as permitted uses.
‘The application also requests permission for a gravel parking area and the use of nine
(9) "Sea-Cans” for storage purposes associated with the business.

2010-116-41 Papade 15 of 41
Proposed Amendments to Zoning By-Law 050-2014

Owner: 2584027 Ontario Ine.

Agent J. Norton

Pleat DIE S32enase

A preliminary site plan (sketch) of the subject property showing the location of the
existing building and requested changes is attached as Schedule “A” to this report.
Schedule “B” to this report is a supporting rationale prepared by Eastem Engineering
Group In.

In August 2008 application was heard by the EDP Committee to rezone lands from the
C7 - Power Centre Zone to the current C8-2 Power Centre Special Exception Zone to
permit an “Automobile Service Station’, with limited services. This application was
approved and the Owner took the necessary steps to open what is now known as
"Brockville Oil and Tires".

According to the Owner, since opening, the company has seen drastic expansion in the
amount of clientele being serviced at this location and numbers are increasing each
day. The Owner is now seeking to expand the services provided at this location and
provide major vehicle repairs and used automobile sales in addition to other requests
for a gravel parking area and the use of "Sea-Cans’ for storage.

ANALYSIS

Zoning and Official Plan Information:

Official Plan Designation: Mixed Use and Commercial Area within the Mixed
Use Node subject to Site Specitic Policy Regulations,
Section 4.5.4.1 (no change requested)

Existing Zoning 6-2 ~ Power Centre Special Exception Zone

Requested Zoning ‘Amend the C6-2 - Power Centre Special Exception

Zone to permit major vehicle repairs and used car
sales as permitted uses. The application also
requests permission for a gravel parking area and the
Use of nine (9) “Sea-Cans" for storage purposes

associated with the business,
Site Characteristics:
Total Area: 0.47 hectares

Lot Frontage (Broome Road): 65.80 m
Lot Frontage (Parkedale Ave): 98.65 m

‘The subject lands are currently occupied by “Brockville Oil and Tires’. The site is
bisected by the Trans-Northemn Pipeline and easement related thereto (attached as
‘Schedule “C”). Photos of the subject property are attached as Schedule “D” to this
report. Staff would like to advise the Committee and Applicant that any changes made
to the site as part ofthis application, should approvals be granted, will be subject to Site
Plan Control Approval and a proper site plan will be required to be submitted for review.

zo1e.t16-11 Papage 16 of 41
Proposed Amendments to Zoning By-Law 060-2014

Owner: 2581027 Ontario Incr

‘Agent. J: Norton

Files! DIE O32 ean9

‘Surrounding Land Uses:

‘The surrounding land uses are as follows:

North: The lands to the north are zoned “C6-Power Centre Zone” and are
‘occupied by "Wally Wash’ car wash.

East: The lands to the east are zoned *H1-£1-Business Park Zone” and are
‘occupied by those buildings respecting the business of “LE. Pryer & Son
Enterprises”

South: *H1-E1-Business Park Zone’ and are occupied by a “Business and

Professional Office” (1909 Parkedale Avenue ~ "Voyageur Transportation
Services”) and a “Contractor's Establishment” (1917 Parkedale Avenue ~
“K.D. Construction and Equipment Rentals’)

“E11 Business Park Special Exception Zone” and is occupied by
"MacGregor Crane Service’.

West: The lands to the west are zoned “C6-1 Power Centre Special Exception
Zone" and are occupied by the buildings and associated parking for
"WalMart" and "A&W" Restaurant,

The site and adjacent properties are underlain by Trans-Northem Pipeline easement
and plant.

Public Participation

‘The application for the Zoning By-law Amendment has preceeded through the normal
review process. On 2 October 2018, a Public Meeting was held by the Economic
Development and Planning Committee. Notice of the Public Meeting was advertised in
the Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper on 06 September 2018 and was
Circulated to property owners within 120.0 metres of the subject property. In addition,
signs were posted on the subject property advising that the lands are the subject of
application for Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014. Comments
from City Departments and affected agencies were also solicited. An excerpt from the
Minutes of the Public Meeting is attached as Schedule “E”.

Comments Received as a result of circulation prior to the Public Meeting:

1. Steve Allen, Supervisor of Engineering
* Not opposed to the rezoning,
* Notes that Storm Water Management for the site shall conform to the
predetermined runoff coefficient values established for the Broome
Industrial Park storm water detention basin. Water quality shall be
addressed to meet CRCA guidelines.

aorestes1 Pepade 17 of 41

Proposed Amendments to Zoning By-Law 080-2014
Owner. 2581027 Ontaric ne.

‘Agent: J. Norton

Floss D44-032prae)

2. Conal Cosgrove, Director of Operations:
‘*Nocomments with respect to this application.

3. Robert Nolan, Director of Economic Development
‘© No comments to this application.

4, Trans-Northern Pipelines Inc. (First submission - letter dated 7 Sept 2018,
attached):

* "No objections as long as no structure or activities are on the pipeline right
of way. The proposal to permit for a gravelled vehicle parking area and
the use of nine “sea-cans" may not be feasible outside our right of way
and cannot be permitted on our right of way."

5. Trans-Northem Pipelines Inc., Sandrine Exibard-Edgar (Second submission ~
email dated 12 Sept 2018, attached):
+ “At this stage Trans-Northem Pipelines has no objection to the zoning
amendment. We will be working closely with Joe Norton going forward to
‘make sure our requirements are met.”

6. Hydro One — Local, Gary Kiein-Swormink
‘© "Hydro One has no issue with the proposed amendment.”

7. Ministry of Transportation, Stephen Kapusta
+ "This property is “just” beyond our permit control area. No comments.”

8 Enbridge, Alice Coleman
‘© "No objection.”

9. CN Rail, Susanne Glenn-Rigny
+ “CN Rail has no comment or objections.”

Comments Received at the Public Metin

‘Although no comments were received at the Public Meeting specifically from Members
of the Public, Council Jason Baker requested that Staff look further into the taxation
regulation pertaining to the use of ‘Sea-Cans’ as compared to a permanent building as
well as to provide a copy of the plan showing the Trans-Northem Pipeline Easement
(this plan is attached to this report as Schedule “C”).

‘Andrew McGinnis, Planner for the City of Brockville, contacted Kim Bennett at the
Municipal Property Assessment Corporation and received the following information,
“Sea-cans are assessable and have a structure code of 163 within the MPAC system.
The tax class would be dependent upon the use (commercial, residential, etc.)

2010.16.41 Papage 18 of 41
Proposed Amendments to Zoning By-Law 050-2014

Owner 2581027 Ontario Ine.

Agent J. Norton

Fleet DIN B32uean

ANALYSIS/OPTIONS

Provincial nt Consid

The Provincial Policy Statement 2014 (PPS) provides policy direction on matters of
Provincial interest related to land use planning and development. Section 3 of the
Planning Act further directs that Council decisions affecting planning matters “shall be
consistent with” the Provincial Policy Statement,

Part V of the PPS sets out various policies which describe the areas of Provincial
interest. Not all policies in the PPS are relevant to the planning matter under
consideration, and thus, only those relevant portions will be referenced below.

The application proposes to amend City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 to permit
range of additional commercial uses not currently permitted under the C8-2 Power
Centre Special Exception Zone.

From a review of the PPS, there are some relevant statements/policies under Part V,
Section 1 “Building Strong Communities’. The preamble in this section is a general
statement which reads, in part, as follows:

“Ontario's long-term prosperity, environmental health and social well-being depend
on wisely managing change and promoting effeiont land use and development
patterns. Efficient land use and development patterns support strong, livable and
heathy communities, protect the environment and public health and safety, and
faciltate economic growth.”

This general statement is followed by more specific policies, including the following
references which are of relevance to this application for zoning by-law amendment:

“4.4.3.4 Settlement areas shall be the focus of growth and their vitality and
regeneration shall be promoted,”

“1.1.3.2 Land use pattems within settlement areas shall be based on:
a. densities and a mix of land uses which:
‘a. efficiently use land and resources;
'b. are appropriate for, and efficiently use, the infrastructure and public
‘service facilities which are planned or available, and avoid the need
{or their unjustified and/or uneconomical expansion; and
cc. minimize negative impacts to air quality and climate change, and
promote energy efficiency in accordance with policy 1.8; and
. a range of uses and opportunities for intensification and redevelopment in
accordance with the criteria in policy 1.1.3.3."

aovesistt Papage 19 of 41
Proposed Amendments to Zoning By-Law 050-2014

Gumer: 2881027 Ontarine.

‘Agent. J. Morton

Flos! D44-032m0a00)

Furthermore, Section 1.1.2.3 also states that ‘Planning Authorities shall identity and
promote opportunities for intensification and redevelopment where this can be
accommodated taking into account existing building stock or areas, including brownfield
sites, and the availability of suitable existing or planned infrastructure and public service
facilis required to accommodate projected needs”. Additional policies addressing the
matter of intensification are found throughout the PPS.

“4.3.1 Planning authorities shall promote economic development and
competitiveness by:

1) providing opportunities for a diversified economic base, including
‘maintaining @ range and choice of suitable sites for employment
uses which support a wide range of economic activities and
ancillary uses, and take into account the needs of existing and
future businesses:...”

Section 1.6-Infrastructure and Public Service Facilities addresses the efficient planning
and use of existing and future infrastructure, including municipal servicing, to ensure
logical and planned development.

When examining the policies outlined above in relation to the proposed expansion of
uses and the proposed gravel parking area, Staff are of the opinion that the proposal is,
‘consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the PPS.

Official Plan Considerations

‘The Official Plan goals are to create a sustainable City in terms of health and vitality,
that is economically viable and diverse, has high quality municipal services and
amenities, and is well planned.

Section 2.3 outlines strategic planning themes which include “A Sustainable, Healthy,
and Vital City’, “An Economically Strong and Diverse City’, “A High Quality of City
Services and Amenities’, and "A Well-Planned Responsive City’. Specifically, "An
Economically Strong and Diverse City" outlines among others, that the City is to “Direct
employment and commercial growth to appropriate locations which provide sufficient
existing and planned infrastructure” and ‘Maintain a strong and diverse commercial and
‘employment base by supporting the retention and expansion of existing employment
and commercial uses.”

The subject land is designated under Schedule 1-City Structure, of the Official Plan, as
“Mixed Use and Commercial Area” within the “Mixed Use Node” and is also subject to
Site Specific Policy Area regulations, under Section 4.5.4.1.

Section 3 addresses building a healthy and sustainable City. Through Policy 3.2.3
which describes the City’s Urban Area, it is noted that the City should support
‘opportunities for infil, redevelopment and intensification through a mix and range of

Fat
Proposed Amendments to Zoning By-Law 080-2014
Guner. 2581027 Ontario ne.

gent”: Norton

Flee! DINB32paan

Papede 20 of 41

uses appropriate within the community context. This is further supported through
policies under Section 3.2.2.1-Mixed Use Nodes and Corridors, wherein the node is a
city-wide focal point accommodating a range commercial/retail/service uses, non-
industrial uses, etc. which will not have a destabilizing effect on established
neighbourhoods,

Section 3.2.6 speaks to "Mixed-Use and Commercial Areas” and that the City is to
adapt the commercial nodes to be flexible and responsive to land use pattern changes
land demands, allowing areas to regenerate more quickly over time while adapting to
facilitate permitted uses,

Section 3.2.6.3 specifically addresses the Northeast Commercial & Mixed Use Node by
intending it to be an area of transition from Large Format Retail uses to a range of
mixed employment, commercial uses, and mixed densities uses that will service the
needs of the City for the long-term. This Section continues by stating that the City shall
ensure land use compatiblity with adjacent uses through the use of appropriate buffers
and land use transitions,

Section 4.5 of the Official Plan contains various policies applicable to the "Corridor
Commercial Area”

Policy 4.5.2 identifies various uses and classes of uses as follows:
"4.8.2 PERMITTED USES

‘Subject to the Land Use and Built Form policies of Section 4.5.3, the following
uses shall assist in guiding development permitted within the Mixed Use and
Commercial Areas, recognizing that a more definitive list shall be provided in the
Zoning By-law.

Commercial Uses within the Mixed Use Commercial Area

5. Commercial and retail establishments which are destination oriented or are
intended to serve the travelling public shall be permitted, including automobile
service stations, vehicle sales and service, public garages, repair service and
rental establishments, motels, hotels, restaurants, "animal hospitals,
commercial recreation uses, private clubs, funeral homes, day care centres,
food stores, drug stores, personal service shops, hardware, automotive and
highway commercial uses.

9. Uses accessory to any of the permitted uses in the Mixed Use and
Commercial Area."

Policy 4.5.3 identifies Built Form Policies applicable to the Mixed Use and Commercial
‘Areas. This section outlines multiple policies pertaining to Mixed Use developments as
well as proposals to expand, Large Format Retail and Retail Shopping Centre uses.

2oie.tt6-41 Pogage 21 of 41
Proposed Amendments to Zoning By-Law 050-2016

Owner 2881027 Ontario ne.

Agent! J. Norton

Flee: 14052 pen0

There are no specific references to expansion of uses for smaller vehicle sales and
service establishments; however, Subsection 9. speaks to upgrading of building
facades, signage, sidewalks, lighting, parking areas and landscaping and Subsection
412. states, among others, that landscaping shall be used to enhance the appearance of
building setback and yard areas, contibute to the blending of new and existing
development and to screen parking from adjacent properties and streets,

‘The uses permitted under the proposed C6-2 Power Centre Special Exception Zone are
consistent with those identified under Section 4.5.2 - Permitted Uses. In particular, the
applicant has noted the intended use for the land is the addition of Major Vehicle
Repairs as well as a Used Automobile Sales Establishment to the permitted uses. The
applicant is also requesting the use of nine (9) "Sea-Cans” which are to be accessory to
the permitted uses as well as a graveled parking area.

As the uses requested are identified under Section 4.5.2, and the proposed accessory
Uses are not specifically excluded within the Official Plan, the proposal is consistent with
the current Official Plan designation of the subject land, provided the owner correctly
landscapes the site to shield any and all uses from immediate impact on the abutting
streets. The current business has been in operation since 2009 with no concems being
received by staff and compliments the large format retail stores by providing a service to
the local and regional vehicular traffic.

‘The Site Specific Policy Area referenced in Section 4.5.4.1 speaks directly to shopping
facilities, retail warehouses and other retail uses and has no relevance to this proposal
‘Accordingly, no amendment to the Official Plan is required.

Zoning By-law Considerations:

‘The current zoning on the property with municipal address 103 Broome Road is C6-2
Power Centre Special Exception Zone under City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014.
The requested Amendments to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 would, if
approved, amend the current zoning in order to facilitate expansion of the operation to
permit Major Vehicle Repairs and a Used Automobile Sales Establishment on the
property. The application also requests site specific zone provisions respecting an
‘exemption from the requirement to pave some of the expanded parking area and to
permit the use of nine (9) Sea-cans for storage purposes associated with the business,

Regulations in Consider
‘and PubliclAgency Submissions:

Major Vehicle Repairs

In 2008 the applicant requested rezoning for a "Lube, Oil and Filter Establishment’. As
no definition was present at that time, Staff recommended to Council a scaled down

2ore.tt6-11 Papage 22 of 41
Proposed Amendments to Zoning By-Law 050-2014

‘Owner 2581027 Ontario ne.

‘Agent. J. Norton

Flee! DIE DS2enang

definition of the “Automobile Service Station’ that was acceptable to the applicant at that
time, The current "C6-2 Power Centre Special Exception Zone" states “In addition to
the uses permitted in the C6 Zone, an "Automobile Service Station” shall also be
permitted, however, said automobile service station shall exclude the sale of gasoline,
‘diesel or propane, a car wash, and major vehicle repairs.”

Staff have examined the request for major vehicle repairs to be permitted and have no
concer with the proposed expansion of uses. This is seen as a transition area
between a major commercial retailer to the west and multiple Industral Uses to the east
CL. E. Pryer & Son Enterprises") and south (‘Voyageur Transportation Services’, K.D.
Construction and Equipment Rentals", and “MacGregor Crane Service’)

Accordingly, major vehicle repairs could be considered as a permitted use at this
location. Staff recommends that the current C6-2 Power Centre Special Exception
Zone be amended accordingly. This recommendation is discussed in more detail
elsewhere in this report

Used Automobile Sales Establishment

Staff have examined the proposed “Used Automobile Sales Establishment’ and have no
concem with permitting the sale of used vehicles on the property. Currently, an
“Automobile Sales Establishment’ is a permitted use; however, this definition deals
directly with the sale of “new* vehicles and “used” vehicles being accessory to the main
use. Based on current zoning, the owner would need to have more “new” vehicles for
sale than “used” in order to satisfy the zoning regulations,

Staff have no concem with permitting the sale of used cars at 103 Broome Road as an
accessory use fo the “Automobile Repair Garage”. By permitting an “Automobile Repair
Garage" the sale of used cars would only be permitted provided that the main use
continued.

In addition, Staff also recommends that a maximum number of 12 vehicles be permitted
for sale on the property at any one time. The proposed 12 car maximum is due to the
number of available parking spaces provided on-site under the current site plan.
Permitting more than 12 vehicles for sale would put the site out of compliance with the
minimum parking requirements for the uses on-site. This recommendation is discussed
in more detail elsewhere in this report.

Gravel Parking Area

Section 3.33 b) ii) Parking Area Surface, provides provisions that parking areas must
adhere to when being constructed. It states that... In al other cases (non-residential
ses), each parking area, driveway and driveway access connecting a parking area with
2 street shall, prior to occupancy, be paved with an asphalt, brick or concrete surface;
‘and, in all zones established by this By-law, except an Employment Zone or Rural Zone,
hall be bounded with curbs”

2010-1641 Pagedife 23 of 41
Proposed Amendments to Zoning By-Law 060-2014

Owners 2581027 Ontario Ine.

‘Agent’ J. Norton

Fleet DINGB2eesne

Section 3.33 ¢) i) sets out the regulations pertaining to Parking for Vehicles in Storage.
‘Specifically subsections 2. and 3. deal with the surface of the storage area. Subsection
2 slates that “each vehicle storage area and driveway connecting a storage area with a
street shall be paved with an asphalt, brick or concrete surface except in the RU, E1, or
2 Zones where the storage area may be constructed of gravel with provisions for
drainage facilities and dust control”

‘Subsection 3 continues by stating that “Vehicle storage areas, including storage for
vehicles associated with a car rental establishment or vehicle sales, shall be located,
designed and maintained in accordance with the provisions of Subsection 3.33."

Five (5) properties have requested relief from asphalt paving since 1996. Relief has
ranged from no hard surface (denied) to 2 to § years for temporary relief. All have since
been hard surfaced and are in compliance.

Should the parking area be permitted as gravel, there are multiple issues that could
arise, including but not limited to:

i) storm water effects on neighbouring properties;

ji) the identification of parking spaces;

il) dust control;

iv) winter maintenance;

\) leaking of fluids from vehicles into the ground;

vi) pipeline protection; and,

vil) tracking of gravel/drtidust onto the adjoining street(s).

Based on review of the provisions contained within Zoning By-law 050-2014, Planning
Staff recommend the request for relief from the requirement to pave the parking area
should not be supported as the subject property is located in a prominent location within
the City

Accessory Storage - Use of Nino (9) Sea-Cans

In 2014 when Zoning By-law 050-2014 was adopted by Council, the use of "Sea-Cans’
for storage purposes was removed and not carried over from the previous Zoning B;
law 194-94. As the proposed property is located within the "C8 — Power Centre Zonk
application is required in order to allow Staff, Committee and Council the ability to
review each request on an individual basis to determine ifthe proposed use, timeframe
requested, number, location, contents and dimensions of the "Sea Can(s)" is
appropriate.

Based on the above, application has been submitted in order to request amendment to
Zoning By-law 050-2014 to permit the use of nine (8) “Sea Cans’ on the property for
‘storage purposes associated with the business in operation at 103 Broome Road —
Brockville Oil and Tire.

2oreas644 Paseo 24 of 41
Proposed Amendments to Zoning By-Law 060-2014

Owner, 2581027 Ontario ine.

‘Agont. J. Norton

Fes: 18-0325m204

Section 3.3 a) i) states among others that “where this By-law provides that a lot
may be used for a permitted use or a building or structure may be erected or
used for a permitted use, that use shall include any accessory building or
structure or accessory use, but shall not include:

4, any storage container, portable storage unit, repurposed motor vehicle in
whole or in part, “sea-can” container, intermodal container or other
suchlike container in any zone other than an Employment Zone.”

{As previous Zoning By-law 194-94 permitted "Sea-Cans" as accessory uses, staff have
no concern with providing approval for the use of the "Sea-Cans” that were present at
the adoption of Zoning By-law 050-2014 when this permitted Accessory Use was
eliminated. Historical photography was examined to determine the number of “Sea
Cans" on-site. Based on the review, two (2) “Sea-Cans" were present during 2014 at
103 Broome Road (see Schedule “F" attached to this report for the historical Google
photo). Staff recommends that the use of two (2) existing “Sea-Cans" be permitted but
that the additional seven (7) requested, be denied, as this area is a highly visible
location within the City and a Retail/Commercial focal point of our community.

‘Staff believes that the property contains ample space to construct a permanent storage
building in order to accommodate the storage needs. The Sea-cans that have been
placed on the property (six (6) in total) since 2014 have been placed without proper
approvals or building permits and MPAC has not been notified in order to properly
assess the property. This recommendation is discussed further below.

Should the Committee and Council decide to support the applicant's request and
provide exemption from paving of the parking area, specifics relating to dust control can
be addressed within the Minor Change to the Site Plan Control Agreement

Should the recommendations as discussed by Staff be accepted by Committee, the
zone would read similar to the following:

"C6-2 Zone (103 Broome Road)

In addition to the uses permitted in the C6 - Power Centre Zone, the
following shall also permitted:

‘+ An “Automobile Repair Garage’;

+ The sale of used vehicles as an accessory use to the
“Automobile Repair Garage”. Used Vehicle Sales shall be
limited to a maximum of 12 vehicles; and,

‘+ A maximum of two (2) Sea-Cans.

2010-116-11 Pagheigo 25 of 41
Proposed Amendments to Zoning By-Lav 050-2014

Owner 2581027 Ontario Ine

‘Agent. J. Norton

Flee: B14 032

Site Plan Considerations:

Al lands within the limits of the City for Brockville are subject to development approval
under Site Plan as established by City of Brockville By-law 33-86, as amended.
Accordingly, prior to development, any site changes are subject to site plan approval. In
this case, a Minor Change to the existing Site Plan Control Agreement could be
accepted. This process ensures appropriate design and compliance with zoning
provisions,

POLICY IMPLICATIONS

Relevant Provincial and Municipal policies are addressed under the Analysis/Options
section of this report.

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS

‘The property owner is responsible for any/all proposed improvements to the subject,
property should the application or any amended decision be granted. There are no
financial considerations to the City at this time.

CONCLUSIONS

Following review of the PPS, the Official Plan, Zoning By-law 050-2014, as well as
submissions received respecting the request for Zoning By-law amendment for 103
Broome Road, it is reasonable to amend the C6-2 Power Centre Special Exception
Zone to permit the expansion of uses, including the accessory sale of a maximum of 12,
used vehicles. In addition, the use of Sea-Cans on the property be limited to a
maximum of two (2) and that the proposed parking area be paved and that curbing
requirements be reviewed at the time of Site Plan review.

This conclusion is reflected in the ne beginning ofthis report.

= Jf
2 &
D. Dick, CPA, CA Ac MeGinnis, MCIP, RPP, Dipl M.M.
Director of Corporate Services and Planner I!

Director of Planning (Acting)

rhe Hohl
i Pascoe Marey
Interim City Manager

SCHEDULE “A” TO REPORT 2018-116-11 -| \
o 2

PARKEDALE AVENUE


SCHEDULE “B” TO REPORT 2018-116-11 eon ar eh |

NGINEERING GROUP wc. ‘Broce On KV 318
‘CONSULTING ENGINEERS Tegan ee ein som
Fie 790 Ags 24,2018
City of Broce
Maing Deparment
1 King Suet West
Doct, ON
Kov7As

Attention: Andrew McGinnis, MCIP, RPP, Dipl MM.

Dear Sir: Re: Zoning Amendment Application
Planning Rationale
Pro Oil Change
103 Broome Road
Brockville, ON

Mr. Joe Norton, 2581027 Ontario Inc., owner of Pro Oil Change, Brockville, ON has submitted
‘an application for Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By Law 050-2014 to modify the use
‘of the business on the site, 103 Broome Road, Brockville, ON. The Zoning of the current site is
6-2.

‘The proposed use ofthe site will be modified as follows:

1. Uperading from oil changes and tires, to light mechanical work - alignments, front end
‘work, brakes. This is a complimentary business to what they currently offer, and
‘maintains a neat, clean organized appearance forthe facility. ‘This wll add employment
‘of skilled employment labour to the area through licensed technicians, and apprenticeship
‘courses to develop staff.

Light mechanical work, specifically with regards to tires, alignments, front end work and
brakes are all work related tothe main use of the site currently. This would be under the
current C6-2 zoning for Automobile Service Station as defined in 2.0 Definitions, A.22.
‘The Walmart also i in the C-6 zone and there is light mechanical work done in this
property as well

2. Changing the zoning limitation from new car sales as per By Law C6 to include used car

sales. From a business operations perspective it does not make sense to allow new cat
sales, and not have used carsales due to trade in factors, andthe ability to retail the

{lad A

quality used vehicles that are 1-5 years old. The owner would like the zoning revised to
allow sales of used cars.

Permiting te sale of sed cars is permitted currently in C6 zoning as an Automobile
Sales Establishment. The site would be used to display and sell newer used vehicles.
The site specific zoning for 103 Broome Road is permitted the uses in C6 Zone as per
section 6.3.9.2 of the Zoning By Law.

Throughout the City of Brockville, there are many multi use automobile shops which
offer full service repairs, tre sales and automobile sales. Permitting the uses above
‘would allow the business to expand and provide employment in the City

‘The site currently has 8 steel containers onsite, and would ike to change the zoning to
allow up to 9, There were existing containers on the site prior to zoning changes. They
are an essential part of the business to provide our customers with tire storage on site and
to store inventory for the business. The containers are neatly organized, painted and
properly maintained, The owner wishes to modify the zoning to allow sea can storage
Containers for storage requirements in order to keep up with the increased demand duc to
‘business expansion, Section 3.3 a i) 4 states that accessory uses for “sea can” are not
‘permitted other than in an Employment Zone.

‘The surrounding properties to the south east and north all fall into the
industia/commercial zoning. ‘The property directly east is currently used as an outdoor
storage facility for large vehicles and containers. The property tothe south on Parkedale
isa construction yard with storage of large vehicles, sea cans and multiple vehicles. The
property has also been a used car dealer. The uses ofthese lots are industrial in nature
‘nd compared to the Pro Oil Change site, which is kept neat and in good appearance, the
neighbouring properties are less atfractive. The proposed zoning change would allow Pro
il Change to keep the sea can containers neatly stored atthe rear of their property,
adjacent to the storage area tothe east.

‘The sea cans in place prior to the zoning change are considered “legal non-complying”.
‘The addition of further cans will not be visually distracting or unappealing considering
the surrounding properties. There are several instances in the City of businesses with sea
‘cans being used for storage for automobile service centers and sales. The zoning of C6
Power Centre Zone, in the ease ofthis property, is very closely located to the Business
Park zoning E1 and the uses are closely related. 1 petmits the use of sea cans for
storage. Modification of the C6-2o include the use of sea cans would allow the owner
to expand Pro Oil Change.

‘The owner would like to request a zoning change to allow for a gravel parking area in the
‘north east corner ofthe site, It would act as temporary overflow parking during busy
seasonal time and also forthe base below which the sea cans would be stored, The
granular pad would be graded and compacted and maintained. Granular parking storage
allows for water infiltration into the ground, lessening the need for stormwater
‘management requirements, This area is shown on the accompanying revised site plan by


‘The gravel pad for the sea cans and for temporary overflow parking would be consistent
‘with the neighbouring properties to the south and east, which both have gravel yards.

Te gravel parking area in this case would be smaller and used only during work days for
cars waiting in queue, and drop offs. The gravel would be compacted and maintained.

Ifyou have any questions, or require additional information, please do not hesitate in contacting
the undersigned.

Yours very truly,
EASTERN ENGINEERING GROUP INC
Colin Jardine, P.Eng.

President
Director of Civil Engineering


--——_

SCHEDULE “C” TO REPORT 2018-116-11

Wl \

aig

Trans-Northern Pipline Easement

Page 20 of 41

4 ii


Page 31 of 41

SCHEDULE “D” TO REPORT 2018-116-11


Page 32 of 41


Page 33 of 41


Page 34 of 41

SCHEDULE “E” TO REPORT 2018-116-11

Qa Public Meeting
BROCKVILLE Economic Development &
EITOF PE eOD BS Planning Committee

Tuesday, October 02, 2018, 6:00 pm
COMMITTEE MINUTES City Hall, Council Chambers.

Committee Members:
Councillor M. Kalivas, Chair

Councillor J. Baker

Councillor L. Bursey

Councillor Mayor D. Henderson, Ex-Officio

Absent:
Councillor D. LeSueur

Other Council Members:
Councillor P, Dery

Staff:
A. McGinnis, Planner II
L. Murray, Deputy City Clerk (Recording Secretary)

‘The Chair called the meeting to order at 6:00 pm.
REPORT

1. 2018-13-10
Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment,
103 Broome Road, Part of Lot H, Plan 332m, Being Parts 1 to 7, Reference
Plan 28R-12720,
Owner: 2581027 Ontario Inc.
Applicant: 3. Norton
Files: D14-032

Moved by: Councillor Busey
‘THAT Report 2018-113-10 be received as information and that a report on
this matter be prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic
Development Planning Committee at a future meeting.

CARRIED

Page 1 of 2

Page 25 of 41

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes
Tuesday, October 02, 2018

Councillor Kalivas announced the Public Meeting procedure.

‘A. McGinnis announced that Notice of the Public Meeting was advertised in the
Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper and the Brockville This Week on
September 6, 2018 and was circulated to property Owners within 120.0 metres
(400.0 feet) of the subject property and various Agencies and Departments. In
addition, signs were posted on the subject property advising that the lands are the
subject of an Application for Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-
2014,

Councillor Kalivas, Chair, asked that any person wanting further notice of the
passage of the proposed amendment should give their full name, address, e-mail
and postal code to the Secretary prior to leaving the meeting. Councillor Kalivas
Identified that "Request for Information Sheets” were located at the back of the
room.

Councillor Kalivas reviewed the procedures for the Public Meeting.

‘A. McGinnis provided an overview of the proposed amendments to the zoning by-
law.

J. Norton who was in attendance spoke in favour of the amendment.
‘No person completed the Request for Information form.

The meeting adjourned at 6:21 pm.

Page 2 of 2


Page 36 of 41

SCHEDULE “F” TO REPORT 2018-116-11

Source: Google Earth 2014 imagery

Page 37 of 41

November 1, 2018

Report to Economic Development and Planning Committee
November 6, 2018

2018-115-11
Proposed Allocation of the EDP Ad Hoc Committee
Municipal Accommodation Tax Chair M. Kalivas
Mayor D. Henderson
With Staff support
RECOMMENDATION:

THAT the proposed allocation of the Municipal Accommodation Tax (MAT) be
received;

THAT Stakeholders be advised to provide written response to the proposed
allocation to the Manager of Strategic Initiatives by November 16";

THAT a MAT implementation working group of not more than five members,
as determined by the TAC, be struck:

THAT a MAT implementation working group consult with the Chair of the
Economic Development and Planning Committee and the Director of
Economic Development of the implementation of the MAT by November
23rd;

THAT staff report back to December EDP Committee with the final MAT

allocation after considering written responses and recommendation on the
implementation;

Proposed Allocation

THAT the allocation of MAT proceed are subject to annual approval by
Couneil;

THAT the funds received from the MAT, as at December 31** each year, be
allocated as follows:

1. 50% up to a maximum of $200,000 to the Aquatarium;
2. 50% (25%6}, of the balance, to be disbursed to new projects, new or

existing festivals as seed money, based on recommendations from the
Tourism Advisory Committee (TAC);

Page 38 of 41

Report 2018-15-11
Municipal Accommodation Tax Allocation of Proceeds

a. Projects to be one-time allocations or a maximum of two years
with entity not able to apply in the third year;

b. Recommendations to include financial summary of previous
year's usage of funds (if applicable);

. Applications with financial information will be received by the

of Brockville each November, compiled and forwarded to the
TAC for evaluation. The recommendations will be presented by
the TAC annually in January to EDP Committee, and then to
Couneil for approval. Funds will be disbursed by the City of
Brockville.

d. Council reserves the right to full discretionary control of all
funding.

8. 40% (20%4), of the balance, to the TAG for adltional marketing:

ity assets must be included in all marketing (Aquatarium,
Tunnel, Brockville Arts Centre, Museum, Library and Municipal
Harbour)

4. 10% (5%), of the balance, to the City Tourism Infrastructure Reserve.
Arreserve intended to be used for tourism-related opportunities that
are unknown when seed funds are allocated each year (Item 2).
These funds will be disbursed by Council and may not need to be fully
disbursed each year;

THAT $50,000 of the 2018 MAT receipts, before the formula is applied, is
allocated to the Aquatarium as authorized by Council resolution at the
Council meeting of Tuesday, July 24", 2018: and

THAT no fee be charged by the City for administration of the MAT.
PURPOSE

To propose the allocation of the funds received through the Municipal
Accommodation Tax through the efforts of the EDP Ad Hoc Committee
comprised of Mayor Henderson and Chair Kalivas, with staff support, which
was to solicit Council feedback on allocation and adjust the earlier draft
document, for consideration of EDP Committee members.

Page 39 of 41

Report 2018-15-11
Municipal Accommodation Tax Allocation of Proceeds

BACKGROUND

On January 30, 2018, Council passed the following motion:

THAT a hotel tax at a proposed rate of 4 percent on all Brockville
transient accommodations effective May 1, 2018 be approved;

THAT a total amount of hotel tax be used for Tourism related
activities; and

THAT an implementation plan be developed prior to initiating the hotel
tax; and

THAT the necessary bylaw be enacted;

THAT the Township of Elizabethtown-Kitley be encouraged to
implement a similar transient accommodation tax.

In a further report to Council, the rate for Bed and Breakfasts only was
changed from 4% to $4.00 per night.

In March 2018, staff surveyed TAC members and local accommodation
providers to collect their view on how the funds should be distributed. The
staff report to March EDP Committee recommended the following allocation
of the MAT:

THAT the funds be used fo fund the amount of the tourism contract
(approximately $190,000 in 2018) and the balance of the funds to be
allocated as follows:

[Proposed tourism related expenses %
[Enhance marketing of Brockville by expanding reach of current

1._|marketing program managed by Tourism Brockville aK

lnvestment in product development of city-owned assets: for
Jexample downtown accessible washrooms, dver’s change room,
2 _ [arena development, etc 20%

Grants toindividuals/organizations for festivals, events, new
3_[attractions, ete 17%
Totall__100%


Page 40 of 41

Report 2018-15-11
Municipal Accommodation Tax Allocation of Proceeds

No decisions were made at the March meeting and the discussion was
deferred to the June EDP meeting and then delayed until November EDP.

At the September EDP meeting, Mayor Henderson and Councillor Kalivas,
Chair of EDP Committee, undertook to review the allocation as an Ad Hoc
EDP working committee to develop an updated that was more reflective of
the consensus position of Council. This draft would then return to the EDP

ANALYSIS

The legislation states that 50% of the funds raised must be given to an
“eligible tourism entity". An eligible tourism entity is defined as a non-profit
entity whose mandate includes the promotion of tourism in Ontario or in a

The City’s Solicitor has confirmed that the Aquatarium would be considered
an “eligible tourism entity” and that it meets the criteria of “promoting
tourism”.

POLICY IMPLICATIONS

There are no policy implications at this time.

FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS

‘The estimate for 2018 MAT proceeds will be approximately $200,000. Based
‘on a prior resolution of Council and the recommendations in this report,
$50,000 will be directed to the Aquatarium with the rest being distributed
according to the recommendation:

$125,000 $50,000 plus 50% of the balance up to $200,000 to Aquatarium
37,500 50% (2594) of the balance to TAC to allocate as seed money
30,000 40% {20%) of the balance to TAC for additional marketing
7,500_ 10% 45%} of the balance for City Tourism Infrastructure Reserve
"$200,000

Based on estimated proceeds of $425,000 for future years, the allocation
would be as follows

Page 41 of 41

Report 2018-15-11
Municipal Accommodation Tax Allocation of Proceeds

$200,000 $50,000 plus 50% of the balance up to $200,000 to Aquatarium
112,500 50% (25%) of the balance to TAC to allocate as seed money
20,000 40% {256} of the balance to TAC for additional marketing
22.500 10% (59%) of the balance for City Tourism Infrastructure Reserve
‘$200,000

CONCLUSIONS

Although the legislation requires that at least fifty percent of the funds are
for tourism promotion, this program will direct one hundred percent of fund
funds towards tourism activities, thus satisfying the requirements of the
legislation, which will result in increased economic spinoff for Brockville
business.

