Page 1 of 46

a Economic Development and
eat Planning Committee
BROCKVILLE Tuesday, September 6, 2016, 5:15 pm

ity Hall, Council Chambers

Areas of Responsibility
Councillor P. Deery, Economic Development Economic Development
Chair Planning Advisory Team.
Councillor L. Bursey Chamber of Commerce Museum Board
Councillor M. Kalivas DBIA brary Board
Councillor D. LeSueur Heritage Brockville Arts Centre
Mayor D. Henderson, Tourism
Ex-Officio

Page COMMITTEE AGENDA

Disclosure of Interest
Delegations and Presentations
1. Nil

Correspondence

1. Nil

Staff Reports

4-13 1. 2016-117-09
‘Appeal of By-law 051-2016
Being a By-law to amend Zoning By-law
050-2014, Bayview Road

THAT the Ontario Municipal Board be advised, in consideration of the appeal
of By-law 051-2016 by Kalle Pugi, that Brockville City Council affirms By-law
051-2016 as being consistent with the Provincial Policy Statement,
conforming to the Official Plan, appropriate for the subject property and
neighbourhood, and representing good planning, and further, that Brockville
City Council believes that the appeal is incomplete, is without merit and
‘should be dismissed without a hearing.

14-37

38-40

41-46

Page 2 of 46

Economic Development and Planning Committee
September 6, 2016

2. 2016-120-09
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014
1115 Millwood Avenue, Owner: Sweetwater Homes Ltd,
Applicant, Jane Almond

THAT Zoning By-law 050-2014 be amended to rezone the property with
‘municipal address 1115 Millwood Avenue from R6 ~ Multiple Residential Zone
to R5-7 ~ Multiple Residential Special Exception Zone to permit the
construction of a townhouse block with reduced frontage, a reduction to the
rear yard setback and a setback from the toe of the slope of Windsor Creek.

3. 2016-122-09
License Agreement 16 Louis Street

THAT Council authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to execute a
licence agreement with Ms. Kathy VanDusen, 16 Louis Street,
Brockville for the use of a portion of Norton Lane on the west side of
Norton Street to access a parking area on the rear of the 16 Louis
Street properties.

New Business - Reports from Members of Council

1. Report on AMO 2016 Annual Conference
(Councillor L. Bursey)

THAT the report submitted by Councillor L. Bursey regarding the 2016 AMO
Annual Conference be received.

Consent Agenda
Recess for EDP Public meeting
Motion to Move into Closed Session

THAT pursuant to Municipal Act, 2001, Section 239, Sub. 2, (c), the
Committee resolve itself into Closed Session to consider:

1. a proposed or pending acquisition or disposition of land by the municipality
of local board.

Page 3 of 46

Economic Development and Planning Committee
September 6, 2016

Report of the Committee from Closed Session
THAT the EDP Committee rise from Closed Session without reporting.
Adjournment

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee adjourned its meeting
until the next regular meeting scheduled for October 4, 2016.

Page 4 of 46

29 August 2016

REPORT TO THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE - 6
‘SEPTEMBER, 2016

2016-117-09
‘APPEAL OF BY-LAW 051-2016 M, PASCOE MERKLEY
BEING A BY-LAW TO AMEND DIRECTOR OF PLANNING.
ZONING BY-LAW 080-2014

BAYVIEW ROAD

FILE: 014-012 0.2014)

RECOMMENDATION

‘THAT the Ontario Municipal Board be advised, in consideration of the appeal of By-law
051-2016 by Kalle Pugi, that Brockville City Council affirms By-law 051-2016 as being
‘consistent with the Provincial Policy Statement, conforming to the Official Pian,
appropriate for the subject property and neighbourhood, and representing good
planning, and further, that Brockville City Council believes that the appeal is incomplete,
‘is without merit and should be dismissed without a hearing,

PURPOSE

To report to the Ontario Municipal Board (OMB) respecting the position taken by
Council in response to the appeal of By-law 051-2016

BACKGROUND

‘The City Clerk has received an appeal with respect to the passing of By-law 051-2016,
which by-law amends City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 regarding File D14-012
Pertaining to the property described as Part of Lot 4, Registered Plan 80, being Part 3
on Reference Plan 28R-6942, City of Brockville, County of Leeds; Bayview Road. The
appeal is attached to Report 2016-00-09 as Schedule “A”.

By-law 051-2016 was adopted by Council on the 26 July 2016, and is attached hereto
as Schedule “B”

‘The Municipal Submission to be filed with the OMB on receipt of an appeal of a
Planning matter requires a report on the position taken by Council in response to the
appeal, including conformity to the Official Pian

ANALYSIS.
(On 3 May 2016, concurrent Applications for Consent and for Zoning By-law Amendment
were filed by Michael Menard, agent for the owners of waterfront lands located on the
south side of Bayview Road.

Notification and a request for submissions was provided to City departments, external
agencies and to the public including neighbours, A public meeting respecting the

Page 5 of 46
[APPEAL OF By-Law os. 2018 Page 2
‘ting A By PAW'TO AMEND
Zone Br LAW 0802014
Barvew ROAD
PE! ONE aT2p ne

requested amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014 was held by the EDP Committee on
7 June, 2016. Several written and oral submissions were received, including those
made by the appellant, Mr. Kalle Pugi, all of which were considered in the
recommendation in Report 2016-089-07 to amend Zoning By-law 050-2014 as it relates
to the subject property. Said Report also details Official Plan considerations and
concludes that itis appropriate, in factoring in the local circumstances, to put in place
‘appropriate zoning controls on a small parcel of waterfront land to which a dock is
attached,

‘Amending By-law 061-2016, adopted by Council on 26 July 2016, is intended to impose
a very restrictive, OS-4 Special Exception Open Space Zone on a very small remnant
parcel of waterfront land, to allay the concerns of neighbours. The only permitted use is
a Private Marine Facilty which, for purposes of the OS-4 Zone, is "a structure which is
used fo moor or berth @ boat, and includes a dock, boat lif, boatport or slp.”
Furthermore, no buildings are permitted nor are accessory uses, buildings or structures,
and additional restrictions were imposed respecting the parking and occupancy for
human habitation of boats, trailers and recreational type vehicles on the property.

‘The appeal submitted on the requisite form to the municipality is flawed in several
respects, and the following has been communicated with the OMB:

‘= Part 3 Appellant Information indicates the name and contact details of an
individual named Kalle Pugi, owner of adjacent lands to the property which is the
subject of Zoning By-law 051-2016. However, the Signature of Appellant is not
that of the individual named,

‘+ Part 4 Representative Information has not been completed to authorize a
company or individual to represent the Appellant. Therefore, since Appeliant
Form At has neither been signed by the Appellant nor by a named
representative, the OMB's Rules of Practice and Procedure have not been met.

+ Part 6 Appeal Specific Information. The by-law under appeal is cited as By-law
051-2016, however the appellant's references included in Parts 6.1 and 6.2 bear
no resemblance to the contents of Amending By-law 051-2016, which by-law is
intended to enact a Special Exception Zone (OS-4 Zone) prohibiting buildings
and accessory uses, buildings or structures. It is questioned whether the
appeliant has actually reviewed the by-law enacted by Brockville City Council, as
it’ would become clear to the appeliant that the amending by-law has
appropriately addressed the issues raised through public consultation.
‘Additionally, information to be supplied in Part 6 a) and b) is incomplete.

It is for the above reasons that it is appropriate to advise the OMB that the appeal is
iewed as incomplete. Furthermore, given that By-law 050-2016 is intended to
significantly restrict the use of the subject property in response to neighbours’ concerns,
the OMB should also be advised of Council's opinion that the appeal is without meri


Page 6 of 46
2ms.s17.08
PPE OF ev-.aw ost2016 Pages
Sarview ROAD
FREON one

POLICY IMPLICATIONS

Report 2016-089-07 provides an analysis of the requested zoning by-law amendment in
light of the Provincial Policy Statement as well as the Official Plan. The recommendation
to impose a special exception zone on the subject lands through the adoption of By-law
051-2016 is consistent with the PPS and conforms to the Offical Plan.

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS
‘The appeal received includes the requisite OMB filing fee of $300.

The applicants are responsible to provide to the City a fee of $1600 and are also
responsible for 75% of all Cty of Brockvile costs relative to the OMB hearing.

CONCLUSION

Council should affirm By-law 051-2016, which by-law conforms to the Official Plan, and
advise the OMB accordingly. Also, given that the appeal is incomplete and without
merit, the OMB should also be advised of Counci's request that the appeal be
dismissed without a hearing,

Dihise Dry _——

i Pascoo Merkley, MCIP, RPP B.Casselman
Director of Planning City Manager


‘Schedule “A” ~ Report 2016-17-09 Page 7 of 46

Environment and Land Tribunals C T FORM (A1)
mtg uncial Board PLANING ACT
mn supur couPLeTeD Fora

10
MUNICIPALITY/APPROVAL
‘AUTHORITY

‘SUBJECT OF APPEAL, ‘TYPE OF APPEAL PLANNING ACT
REFERENCE
(SECTION)
FT pppeat a ction 4010,
Fngpstedocion -
r (19)
Consent Severance ‘Aeal condons imposed
Fpppoat changed caatons | en
__ | Fate make a declan on tw apptetion wit 90 days surg |
-Rppeal the penn of « Zoning By outa |
poptcaton ran amenseat the Zoning yaw — fale 0 i
Zoning Bytaw oF ‘avo a dolon ont ppcaton wit 120 dave us)
Zoning Byten Amendment [=
Aplin fran amniment fo the Zoning By-aw — refused by be
— - _—Tankipsty “* — |
Interim Control Bytaw 5 ngpoat tn posing ofan inerin Cont Bipinw Pa
Fpopaat a doction _ - 7128 01736,
o led w mak a decsion on plan wt 10 70)
COntcia Plan Amendment |” poysoaton for an monde ha Ofc Flan ~foked to ake a
<eion onthe appleaton win 80.370 2am
 popcation for an amendment the Otic Plan rose by the
—_ on ee -
‘Aopen decson _ 5199)
Plan of Subavieon ' _epaa cantons imposes _ syasyorsieg | |
- Tate emake a dein onthe appaion within 100 days 5104 |

Part Lot 4, Registered
Bayview Road.
‘Adress andor Legal Descriton of property subject othe appoat

A Reso 0 208 Page 20t6

3n 80, being Part 3 on Reference Plan 28F+5042, Gly of Brockvle, Onaro, County of Leeds,

Page 8 of 46

a a a tte

FtNeme: KALLE LastName: PUG!

‘rip Ne or Asodaon Nar (Rvodalon mas be carried nde apy a aio Soar)
Profesional Tito (it aptcasay

ee nT

Devine Teche & EI Aterate Tteghona
— —_

ae ett —
_ conn imicaesn) Ss
Stee thea SoS as A 106 12204

et eared he peal

‘Please note: You mast notty the Ontario Munklpa Board of any change of address or telephone number in wtng. Please
‘qo your OMB Reference Numbers) afer they have been assigned

‘Prsoal norman requste ons fb colectad undor he povins of he Planning Act, 8.0 1950, . 13, as amended,
‘nd the Ontro Munk! Board Act, .S ©. 1990, . 0.28 as amended. Aran spped i fod al ormaton reg to Uas appeal
‘oy become aval to the pute

[Part 4 Representative information applicable)

‘hereby authorize the named company andlor individual(s) to represent me:

Fat Name: Last Names _
Company Name
Protea Ta:
E mal Asses:
Ba a NF ASRS I ET
Daytime Tlaphone Aerate Telephone
Fax
Mating Adios: _
‘Set Aare Festina Cian
Pome ary a Caray Petal oe
‘Signatce of Appatent Date

‘Please noe: if you are represanng the sppelerd ard are NOT a soci. please corti thet you have wien sutherizaton,
tmqured by tm Bows as ef Pecos and Post, foo bata ob wpaion.” Pose Sonam ey Sse he bok

{arty tat have writen suboreation fom te applianto act as a representative wth respec otis eppea on hs othe
‘hal and | understand tat | maybe eakod 1 rode tutor ny tie

A Rd e208 Paes

Page 9 of 46

Part 5. Language and Access/bil

lease choose preerredianguage: xEnglsh  Feenet

We are commited to providing sorvices as sot outn the Accoesbiy for Ontarians wth Disabities Act, 2008. you have
ary accessibility needs, please contact our Accessibilty Coordinator a8 soon ae possble,

P

6: Appeal Speci Information.

1. Provide specie information about what you are appealing. For example: Municipal Fle Numbers), Bylaw
"Number(s, Ofc Plan Number() or Subdivision Number(s):

Tomi) — OO
BY-LAW NO, 051-2016

1. Under the document City of Brockville, Comprehensive zoning by law 7.0 non-
residential and non-commercial zoning table 7.1 indicates Open zoning permits a
| campground, rowing club, or cottage. Also on table 7.2 (b) the land in question
does not meet the lot and building requirements of open space.
2, Section 3.2.4.3 of the City of Brockville Official plan 4. it states The City shall
| consider applications for infill development intensification and redevelopment of
sites and buildings based on the following criteria: vili. the proposal provides
adequate privacy, sunlight and views of the sky for existing and new residents
3. Section 3.2.8 Crown lands from the Official plan of the City of Brockville
states Construction and alteration of buildings and other developments on or
above Crown land requires a work permit issued by the MNR

2 Outline the nature of your appeal ad the reasons for your appeal. Bo specific and provide land-use planning reasons
(for example: the specie provisions, sections andor poles of the Offical Plan or By-law which ar the subject of
your appeal =f applicable. "i mere space is required, please continue in Part @ or attach a separate page.

+ Under the document City of Brockville, Comprehensive zoning by law 7.0
nonresidential and non-commercial zoning table 7.1 indicates Open zoning
permits a campground, rowing club, or cottage. Also on table 7.2 (b) the
land in question does not meet the lot and building requirements of open
space. The location and size of the lot makes this special exception totally
inappropriate to be zoned open space.

+ From section 3.2.4.3 of the City of Brockville Official plan 4. it states The
City shall consider applications for infill development intensification and
redevelopment of sites and buildings based on the following criteria: vill.
the proposal provides adequate privacy, sunlight and views of the sky for
existing and new residents. Any sort of boat house or structure would block
my only view of the river. The city has stressed that their responsibility only
goes to the water’s edge. However they are now going to allow a foot print


Page 10 of 46

to be established anu then say the water is not then jurisdiction. There are
no plans in this application and anything on the water could restrict my view
or deeded right of way to access to the St. Lawrence River.

+ Section 3.2.8 Crown lands from the Official plan of the City of Brockville
states Construction and alteration of buildings and other developments on
or above Crown land requires a work permit issued by the MINR. There is no
permit and never has been. | was assured by the CRCA and the City that any
alteration to the boat hoist would need permits and consultation by
neighbours. This was not done. The last time it was simply moved one day
generating great uproar from the neighbourhood. Both the City the CRCA
said it was now done, and therefore now a civil matter. They refused to
correct the problem. My concern is that if the City does not enforce its own
policies, what will happen if my deeded right of way access to the St.
Lawrence is blocked by a new structure on the water?

THE FOLLOWING SECTIONS (a&b) APPLY ONLY TO APPEALS OF ZONING BY-LAW AMENDMENTS UNDER
SECTION 34(11) OF THE PLAnNNG ACT.

{) DATE APPLICATION SUBMITTED TO MUNICIPALITY
(tt application submited before January 1, 2007 plese uso tro OF pre Bi 6 Torm)

») Provide a bof explanatory note regarding the proposal, which includes the existing zoning category, desired zoning
<cetogor, tho purpose ofthe desired zoning by aw chango, anda desertion ofthe ands under appeal
‘itmere space is required, please continue in Part 9 or llach a soparato page

Part 7: Rolated Mattos (FkNOWn)
‘Are thor other appeals not ya lod wrth the Municipality? ves F no
‘Ace thor oer planning malirs related to this appest? ves oT

(For example: A consort application connected 109 valence application)
yes, please provide OMB Reference Numbors)sndior Municipal Fle Number(s) inthe box below:

(Peep)

 aeays days

How mary days do you estate ae needed for hoaing tis appeat?™” ait day 4 day

& gaays tweak

More than # week ~ please spociy numberof days: __

How many expert winesses and other witesses do you expect to have a the hearing providing evidenceltestnony?


Page 11 of 46

DDoscribo expert wilase(0'aroa of expertne (Far example: land use planner, archilect engineer,
1 you baive this matter would benoit from mediation? ves Two ®
(Metin i goneaty scheduled ety whon ai pares age fo patpalo) -
Do you believe tls mater would benefit rom a prehearing conference? YES no

(Prenoaing cartrence ae gonealy ral ochoded er vances e aon)

yes, why?

(Information “Ata

Part 9, Ot

Total Fee Submitted: § 200.00 _

r r

Ccoted cheque Money Order

Payment Method Solcita’s general or tut account cheque

‘The payment must bein Canadian funds, payable to the Minister of Finance,
‘© Donot send eash,
‘+ PLEASE ATTACH THE CERTIFIED CHEQUEIMONEY ORDER TO THE FRONT OF THIS FORM.

1 Red ne 206 Pages

Page 12 of 46

‘Schedule “B” ~ Report 2016-117.09

‘THE CORPORATION OF THE CITY OF BROCKVILLE
By-law No. 051-2016

By-taw fo Amend City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 Respecting
Part of Lot 4, Registered Plan 80, being Part 3 on Reference Plan 26R-6942,
Gity of Brockvll, County of Leeds; Bayview Road

(File 014-012 so zor ~ Report 2016-089-07) '

WHEREAS the Council for the Corporation of the City of Brockvill, on the 10"
day of June 2014, adopted City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014; and

WHEREAS the Council of the Corporation of the City of Brockville deems it
‘expedient to amend sald Zoning By-law 050-2014,

NOW THEREFORE THE COUNCIL OF THE CORPORATION OF THE CITY OF
BROCKVILLE HEREBY ENACTS AS FOLLOWS:

THAT By-law 050-2014 be amended as follows:

1. THAT Schedule "A" to By-law 050-2014 be and the same is hereby amended by
rezoning lands described as Part of Lot 4, Registered Plan 80, being Part 3 on
Reference Plan 28R-6842, City of Brockville, County of Leeds, Bayview Road; to
08-4 Open Space Special Exception Zone; said lands being shown on Appendix
“t" hereto annexed as “Change to OS-4 Zone"

2, THAT Section 7.3. Non-Residential and Non-Commercial Special Exception
Zones, Subsection 7.3.5 OS Zone, be and the same is hereby amended by
adding a new clause as follows:

"73.84-OS-4 Zone

Notwithstanding Section 3.35 of Zoning By-law 050-2014, the uses pormittod in
tthe OS-4 Zone shail be restricted to a Private Marine Facility only. For purposes
of the OS-4 Zone, a Private Marine Facility shall mean a structure which is used
to moor or berth a boat, and includes only a dock, boat lit, boat port or sip.

Only the following zone provision applies to the OS-4 Zone:
it Minimum Lot Area a 84 nF

No buildings are permitted, nor are accessory uses, buildings or structures
parmitted.

A Private Marine Facilty is subject to approval or permit from the Conservation
‘Authority, the Province of Ontario or the Government of Cariada,

Page 13 of 46

City of Brockville Page?
By-Law Number 051-2016

‘Notwithstanding Section 3.47, no person shall store or park more than one (1)
boat or trailer, nor park a recreational type vehicle, nor use a boat, traller or
recreational type vehicle for human habitation in the OS-4 Zone."

3. THAT Appendix "t" hereto annexed shall be read with and forms part ofthis By-
law.

Given under the Seal of the
Corporation ofthe City of Brockville
and passed this 26" day of July, 2016

Appendix “1” to By-law 051-2016


Page 14 of 46,

31August2016

REPORT TO THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING COMMITTEE —
6 SEPT 2016

2016-120.09
PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO ZONING M, PASCOE MERKLEY
BY-LAW 050-2014, 1115 MILLWOOD AVENUE DIRECTOR OF PLANNING
OWNER: SWEETWATER HOMES LTD. ANDREW MCGINNIS
APPLICANT: JANE ALMOND, MCIP, RPP PLANNER I

FILE: D14-013s0.2016)

RECOMMENDATION

THAT Zoning By-law 050-2014 be amended to rezone the property with municipal
address 1115 Milwood Avenue from R6 ~ Multiple Residential Zone to R5-7 — Multiple
Residential Special Exception Zone to permit the construction of a townhouse block with
reduced frontage, a reduction to the rear yard setback and a setback from the toe of the
slope of Windsor Creek

PURPOSE
‘The purpose of this report is to provide recommendation on an application filed for

Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 respecting 1115 Millwood
Avenue, located immediately north of 1109 Millwood Avenue.

BACKGROUND

1118 Millwood Avenue, is the northerly portion of the lands which have been under
construction since November 2014, originally slated for two 12 unit condominium
3. Currently, one (1) of the buildings is complete and the owner of the property
wishes to construct a townhouse block on the residual lands rather than the originally
proposed condominium building

‘An Application for Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 has been
submitted by Jane Almond, MCIP, RPP, acting for the property owner, for lands located |
at 1115 Milivood Avenue. ‘The application for amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014,

if approved, would rezone the subject lands from R6 — Multiple Residential Zone to RS — |
“Multiple Residential Special Exception Zone to permit the construction of a townhouse |
block with a reduced frontage and a reduction tothe rear yard setback

Initially requested was a rear yard setback of 6.9 metres, reduced from the required 7.5
metres; however, due to a redesign of the townhouse block, the owner is now
requesting 4.9 metre rear yard setback. This amended request is due to the redesign of
the townhouse block as well as the location of the property line on the south side. Also
requested is a reduction in the minimum required lot frontage for a townhouse block,
from 30,0 metres to 25.3 metres.


Page 15 of 46

2m6.12008 Page2
Fropace Amendments Zoning Brow 052016
Fim DSHS

In addition to the above requests, a request was made through the application and
circulated to agencies and neighbours regarding the landscaped open space provision.
Requested at the time of application was a reduction to the minimum landscaped open
space from 30.0% to 23.9%. This request was made in error on the application and a
reduction is not needed as the property has adequate open space provided at 60.2%,
{as shown on attached Schedule “A” to this report. This was presented to the EDP
‘Committee at the public meeting on 5 July 2016.

Zonini | Plan

Official Plan: Neighbourhood Area subject to Screening Area Policies for the
Cataraqui Region Conservation Authority.

Existing Zoning: R6 — Multiple Residential Zone

Requested Zoning: R5 ~ Multiple Residential Special Exception Zone to permit the
‘construction of a townhouse block with a reduction to the minimum
required lot frontage for a Block Townhouse Dwelling from 30.0
metres to 25.3 metres as well as a reduction to the minimum
required rear yard setback from 7.5 metres to 4.9 metres.

Site Characteristics:

‘The subject land has a lot area of 0.29 hectares, with a lot frontage on Millwood Avenue
of 25.3 metres. The subject land is currently vacant but was originally slated for a 12-
unit condominium building. Schedule “A” to this report is a site plan of the subject
property. Schedule “B” to this report are photographs of the subject property.
‘Schedule “C” to this report is a Planning Rationale prepared by the applicant.

yrounding Land

North: Lands located to the north are zoned EP — Environmental
Protection Zone, in part, and OS ~ Open Space Zone, in part.
East: Lands located to the east are zoned EP — Environmental Protection

Zone, in part, and 12 — St. Lawrence College/Special Exception
Zone; occupied by St. Lawrence College and the Memorial Centre,

South: Lands located south (across Magedoma Boulevard) are zoned T-
€3-3 General Commercial Arterial Special Exception Zone and is
‘occupied by Canadian Tire and a Food Truck.

Southwest: Lands located to the southwest (across Millwood Avenue) are
zoned R6-Multiple Residential Zone and are occupied by Millwood
Manor, a 47-unit residential apartment building,

Page 16 of 46,
2a16.120.08 Pages

Frese Aranda ong Oyo 0-814

Fie De tame

West: Lands located to the west (across Millwood Avenue) are zoned R5-
4 Multiple Residential Special Exception Zone and are occupied by
the Camelot, a 47-unit Condominium building,

Public Participation

The application for Zoning By-law Amendment has proceeded through the normal
review process. On 05 July 2016, a Public Meeting was held by the Economic
Development and Planning Committee. Notice of the Public Meeting was advertised in
the Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper on 8 June 2016 and was circulated to
property owners within 120.0 metres of the subject property. In addition, signs were
posted on the subject property advising that the land is the subject of an Application for
‘Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014. Comments from City
Departments and affected agencies were also solicited. The Minutes of the Public
Meeting are attached as Schedule “D” to this report.

Comments Received are summarized below:
Departments and Agencies:

1. Planning Department - Building Services Division, B Caskenette, CBO:
‘© No concems at this ime

2. Environmental Services Department, S. Allen, Supervisor of Engineering:
‘+ Not opposed to the application

3. Operations Department, C. Cosgrove, Director of Operations
+ No concern (verbal confirmation received)

4. Fire Prevention Office ~ Matt Tyo, Fire Prevention Officer
‘© No concern at this time

5. Cataraqui Region Conservation Authority, Michael Dakin, Resource Planner
(email dated 24 June 2016, attached as Schedule “E” to this report)

‘= Concems with the conceptual site plan submitted with the proposed
Zoning amendment. The changes to the location and configuration of
evelopment may or may not comply with natural hazard setbacks and
stormwater management requirements for this site.

+ itis cntical that a revised Site Plan, including a Landscape and
Grading Plan, and a new Stormwater Management Plan be submitted
for review by the CRCA and City of Brockville Engineering staf prior to
‘approval of the proposed zoning amendment. Approval of an |
amendment without necessary technical review would, in our opinion, |

be inappropriate at this time. |
|
|

* Deferral of the application is recommended until the documents
requested above are submitted to the satisfaction of the CRCA and
City of Brockville

Page 17 of 46
anie.170.08 Page
Proved henner o ove yew 08204
Fler aan

6. Cataraqui Region Conservation Authority, Michael Dakin, Resource Planner
(Letter dated 29 August 2016, attached as Schedule “” to this report)

‘Cannot support the proposed rezoning amendment since the building
Jocation is within the erosion hazard as defined by the CRCA.

‘© We request that the location and/or configuration of the townhouse
development be revised so that no part of the building is within 13.5
‘metres of the toe of slope.

‘+ 100-year ponding elevation/extent be determined and shown on the
plans to evaluate if proper/safe access will be provided and if adequate
flood-proofing is proposed for the proposed townhouse. Please
address/revise accordingly.

+ Staff recommends that additional supporting information (eg.
Drawings/maintenance frequency/ procedure/contact. info. for iter
replacement, etc.) for the Ecosense Stormwater fitration system be
included in the SWM report, perhaps as an appendix.

+ Inspection/maintenance frequency/procedure for catchbasins be
detailed in the SWM report to give those responsible for maintenance a
‘better indication of how to determine when maintenance is required
‘and how it should be carriec-out

ANALYSIS.

The Provincial Policy Statement 2014 (PPS) issued under section 3 of the Planning Act
provides polcy direction on matters of Provincial interest related to land use planning
and development. Section 3 of the Planning Act further directs that Council decisions
affecting planning matters ‘shall be consistent with” the Provincial Policy Statement.

Part V of the PPS sets out various policies which describe areas of Provincial interest.
Not all policies in the PPS are relevant to the planning matter under consideration, and .
thus, only those relevant portions will be referenced below.

Part V, Section 1 is entitied “Building Strong Communities”. Section 1.1 focuses on
developing strong communities through managing and directing land use to achieve
‘efficient development and land use pattems focusing growth within established
settlement areas to ensure that development occurs in areas which represent logical
‘expansion of existing public services facilities and infrastructure and which represent
efficient use of land and resources.

Part V continues with policies promoting intensification of existing building stock with full
‘municipal services. Policies within this section state:

"4.1.3.4 Settlement areas shall be the focus of growth and their vitality and
regeneration shall be promoted.”


Page 18 of 46
sore12008 Page's
Proposed Arandment to Zoning By aw 60-2014
‘se wood Avon

"1.4.3.2 Land use pattems within settlement areas shall be based on:
a. densities and a mix of land uses which:

1. efficiently use land and resources;

2. are appropriate for, and efficiently use, the infrastructure and public
service facilities which are planned or available, and avoid the need
for their unjustified and/or uneconomical expansion; and

3, minimize negative impacts to air quality and climate change, and
promote energy efficiency in accordance with policy 1.8;

5. are transit supportive, where transit is planned, exists or may be
developed;

b. a range of uses and opportunities for intensification and redevelopment in
accordance with the criteria in policy 1.1.3.3."

Furthermore, Part V, Section 1.1.3.3 also states that ‘Planning Authorities shall identify
and promote opportunities for intensification and redevelopment where this can be
‘accommodated taking info account existing building stock or areas, including brownfield
sites, and the availabilty of suitable existing or planned infrastructure and public service
facilities required to accommodate projected needs”. Additional policies addressing the
matter of intensification are found throughout the PPS.

Part V, Section 1.4 is entitled "Housing". This section focuses on creating and
‘maintaining a full range of housing forms and densities designed to be affordable to
‘moderate and lower income households. This to be achieved in part through residential
intensification and cost effective development.

Part V, Section 1.6 is entitled “Infrastructure and Public Service Facilities” and promotes
the optimization of municipal services and public health facilities as the preferred form of
servicing for settlement areas. Servicing addresses water, sewage, transportation and
infrastructure corridors and waste management.

Part V, Section 2 is entitled “Wise Use and Management of Resources” and deals with
agricultural policies, mineral resources, natural heritage, water quantity and quality and
‘cultural heritage and archeological resources. The site is not an agricultural site and no
indication has been brought forward that the site is of archeological or cultural
significance,

Part V, Section 3 is entitled “Protecting Public Health and Safety’ and deals with natural
hazards and man-made hazards. Specifically Section 3.1.1 states, among others that
“Development shall generally be directed to areas outside of hazardous lands adjacent
to river, streams and small inland lake systems which are impacted by flooding hazards

and/or erosion hazards.”

The above-noted directives found in Part V, Sections 1, 2 and 3 of the PPS point
towards support for the additional dwelling units which are being sought through this
request for zoning approval. However, the proposed townhouse development is located |
within close proximity to an efosion hazard as stated by the Cataraqui Region

Page 19 of 46,
201612008 Pages

Frome Anendmano Zing Ben 022014

Fe DUG Staae

Conservation Authority in their recent letter dated 29 August 2016 and attached as
Schedule “F” to this report

Specifically, the proposed townhouse development has been proposed at 10.0 metres
from the toe of the slope of Windsor Creek and the minimum setback permitted by
CRCA regulatory policy is 13.5 metres. CRCA will not issue a building and land-use
permit to construct the proposed townhouse block unless a minimum of 13.5 metres
satisfied.

To achieve the above setback from toe of slope of the creek, some alterations to the
building layoutidesign and the Stormwater Management Report would be req
‘Once achieved, the proposed development of townhouses on this site would be
Consistent with policies, including the natural hazards policies, contained within the
PPS, as outlined above.

Official Plan Considerations

‘The Official Plan provides guidance on how to manage future growth, development, and
‘change within the City of Brockville.

‘The Official Plan goals are to create a sustainable city in terms of health and vitality,
that is economically viable and diverse, has high quality municipal services and
amenities, and is well planned

‘Section 2.3 outines strategic planning themes which include "A Sustainable, Healthy,
and Vital City’, "An Economically Strong and Diverse City’, “A High Quality of City
Services and Amenities”, and "A WellPlanned Responsive City’. Specifically, “A
Sustainable, Healthy, and Vital City’ outines among others, that the City is to “ensure
that all ctizens have, equitable, accessible, afordable, energy efficient housing choices,
hich are supportive ofa variety of lifestyles at various stages of life.”

‘The subject land is designated under Schedule 1 - City Structure, of the Official Plan, as
“Neighbourhood Area and is subject to Screening Area Policies for the Cataraqui
Region Conservation Authority.

‘Section 3 addresses building a healthy and sustainable City. More specifically, Section
3.2.4.1 states among other things that development within the Neighbourhood Areas

need to be predominately focused on low to medium density housing and local :
‘commercial uses while maintaining the character and identity of the neighbourhood,

Section 3.2.4.3 speaks directly to Residential Intensification and states among others
that it shall be the policy of the City that, future housing needs shall be provided through
residential intensification through "infil development and residential development of
vacant land or underutilized land in the Built-Up Area’. The section continues to
address that infil development, intensification and redevelopment shall follow specific
criteria including but not limited to, appropriateness of the development within the
context of the neighbourhood; the availabilty of municipal infrastructure; the


Page 20 of 46
an1e170.08 age?
roped Ameren Zring By om 80204
ae: O14 Stasmuse

development respects and reinforces the existing character of buildings and
streetscape; and is compatible with surrounding development.

Section 3.7.1.1 provides considerations when reviewing development proposals that are
within Screening Areas. These considerations include, but are not limited to, existing
physical hazards, potential impacts of these hazards, methods by which these impacts
may be overcome in a manner consistent with accepted engineering and resource
‘management practices and techniques and the potential impact on surrounding lands,
upstream lands and downstream lands. This section also indicates that the City shall
consult with the Cataraqui Region Conservation Authority (CRCA) on technical aspects
relating to the above. This consultation has occurred and is discussed throughout this
report.

‘The general "Neighbourhood Area” policies are further refined under Section 4.3.2
wherein, medium density residential uses shall be permitted. This includes row or block )
townhouse dwellings

Various other Policies under Section 4.3.3 address development standards for
residential uses within Neighourhood Areas. These standards speak to density,
‘massing, height, parking, etc.

Based on policies above, as well as comments received, planning staff are of the
opinion that the proposal to rezone 1115 Millwood Avenue from R& — Multiple
Residential Zone to R5-7 ~ Multiple Residential Special Exception Zone to permit the
construction of a townhouse block is compatible with Neighbourhood Area Policies.

‘As stated previously, the CRCA has raised concems with the proposed townhouse .

development. Initially discussed was the location and configuration of development and

whether or not the development would comply with natural hazard setbacks and .

stormwater management requirements for this site. it was requested during the

circulation for the public meeting that a revised Site Plan, including a Landscape and

Grading Plan, and a new Stormwater Management Plan be submitted for roview by the

GRA. This process has been completed and design issues stil remain (see letter

attached as Schedule “F” to this report). As stated previously, a setback of 135

metres to the toe ofthe natural hazard, which i within the area regulated by the CRCA, |
|

must be maintained

Zoning By-law Consideration:

‘The current zoning on the property with municipal address 1115 Millwood Avenue is RB
= Multiple Residential Zone under City of Brockuille Zoning By-law 050-2014. The
requested Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 would, if approved,
rezone the subject lands to RS - Multiple Residential Special Exception Zone to permit
the construction of a townhouse block with a reduced frontage and a reduction to the |
rear yard setback

The special exception provisions request a rear yard setback reduction from 7.5 metres

Page 21 of 46
‘ame2008 Paget
Prop Kenner o Zoning ow 8.
Flas 14s

to 4.9 metres rather than the initially requested 5.9 metres contained within the
application. This amended reduction was due to a redesign of the townhouse block and
reconfiguration of the building's footprint. This 4.9 metre setback is being requested as
a minimum, this may increase depending on the concept selected that will satisfy all
development requirements and the CRCA regulations,

‘Also requested is a reduction in the minimum required lot frontage for a townhouse
block, from 30.0 metres to 25.3 metres.

Consideration of Issues Raised through Public and Agency Submissions:

Issues and concems raised by staff and agencies at the Public Meeting held on 5 July
2016:

1. Appropriateness of the requested zoning including the proposed reduction to the
rear yard setback and natural heritage impacts,

‘The requested zoning is considered appropriate for the site as the current R6 —
‘Multiple Residential Zone was in place to accommodate the previously approved
12-unit condominium building. As a result of current and anticipated sales, the
‘owner of the property is requesting a change in housing type in order to complete
the development of the site.

Due to the proposed configuration of the townhouse block, the owner is
Fequesting a reduction in the minimum required lot frontage for a townhouse
block, from 30.0 metres to 25.3 metres as well as a reduction to the minimum,
rear yard setback (eastern propery line) from 7.5 metres to 4.9 metres.

Staff has no concem with the requested rezoning or reductions proposed.
However, engineering and design for the property is continuing, and concerns
are still ongoing with respect to issues raised by the CRCA respecting Storm
Water Management and Natural Hazard setback requirements. Although
deferral of Counci’s decision on the rezoning has been requested by the CRCA,
the zoning amendment could still proceed since the natural hazard and design
issues relating to the building setback would have to be resolved to the
satisfaction of the CRCA through the Site Plan Control Approval process and its
‘own permitting process. Altematively, through an additional site-specific zone
provision, the 13.5 metre setback from the toe of the slope could be imposed in
the special exception zone being created for this site. Either option would reduce
further delays caused by the deferral of a decision on the zoning amendment,
Which is important to the developer who wishes to proceed immediately with the
Site Plan Control Application and potentially obtain a building permit for
‘construction prior to winter. Should Council proceed with the proposed
amendment, the final site plan may only contain four (4) units. A concept plan for
a four (4) unit townhouse block has been provided by the owner and is attached
‘as Schedule “G" to this report.


Page 22 of 46

‘2a1e20.00 in
Proposed Amendment o Zoning By law 0802014
HOt 0t3pene _

2. Compatibity of proposed uses withthe surrounding neighbourhood

‘The proposed R&-7 Multiple Residential Special Exception Zone to permit the
townhouse style format, including design, setbacks and access is consistent with
other ike dwelings currently buit within close proximity. Brookside Place directly
north of the subject property contains several semi-detached dwellings and one
(1) triplex dwelling, By incorporating the proposed townhouse dweling between
the larger three (3) storey 12-unit condominium and the existing lower density
‘dwellings on Brookside Place, it provides a transition between dwelling type and
density

‘Accordingly, staff is of the opinion that the proposed townhouse block is a good
fit within the context of the neighbourhood.

‘Should the recommendations described above be accepted by Council, the zone would
read similar to the following:

‘RS-7 Multiple Residential Special Exception Zone (1115 Millwood
Avenue)

The uses permitted in the R5-7 Zone shall be those uses permitted in the RS
= Multiple Residential Zone. The zone provisions for the R5-7 Zone shall be
the same as for the R5 ~ Multiple Residential Zone save and except for the
following:

Minimum Lot Frontage Required for a Block Townhouse 25.3 metres:
Dwelling.
Minimum Rear Yard

49 metres |

|

Minimum setbacks from the creek embankment of Windsor Greek fo any building
or structure shall be determined by the Cataraqui Region Conservation
Authority.”

Site Pian Considerations:
Al lands within the limits of the City for Brockville are subject to Site Plan Control
Approval as established by City of Brockville By-law 33-86, as amended. 1115,
Millwood Avenue will be subject to Site Pian Control Approval

POLICY IMPLICATIONS.

‘A review of the Provincial Policy Statement and relevant policies within the Official Plan
has been conducted and is provided within the “Analysis” section of this report

Page 23 of 46
206.120.08 Page 10

Flat D143

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS

‘A complete application for amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 has
been received, including all applicable fees.

Future approvals associated with the development of the subject property, including but
‘ot limited to Site Plan Control Approval, issuance of building permits, and payment of
all requisite fees, are the responsiblity of the Owner andlor Applicant.

CONCLUSION

Following review of the PPS, the Official Plan and Zoning By-law 050-2014 as well as
‘considering the submissions received, itis recommended that Zoning By-law 050-2014
be amended to establish a new special exception zone affecting 1115 Millwood Avenue
to facilitate the development of a townhouse block with reduced frontage, a reduction to
the rear yard setback and a setback from the toe of the slope of Windsor Creek. This
conclusion is reflected in the recommendations at the beginning of this report

MW. Pascoe Merkley, MCIP, RPP indrew MeGinnis, MCIP, RPP, DiplM.M.
Director of Planning Planner It

ss

City Manager


CONCEPTUAL
SITE PLAN FOR
‘CONDO DevELOPMENT


Page 25 of 46

SCHEDULE “B” TO REPORT 2016-120-09


Page 26 of 46

Photo of adjacent Condominium Building (facing west)

Page 27 of 46

SCHEDULE “C” TO REPORT 2016-120-09

Page 1 of 4

Planning Report
Application for Zoning Amendment Magedoma
Boulevard

1. Project Overview

“Tho applicant proposes to amend he zoning from RB, a multiple esidential zone, to AS-x to
alow forthe construction of townhome dwelings. The property has previously beon subject to
‘numerous planning applications that alowed forthe constuction of two mult esidential condo
‘unis. The dovoloper would now ike to amend the exsing approvals lo constuct 5 townhome
Condo units. The units wil be slab on grade construction with garages. Two spaces for parking
wil bo proved ong inthe garage and one in the driveway. Two models will bo ofored one with
Aloft and othors bungalows,

‘Tho lands are legally described as Part of Lots 11 nd 12, Concession 2, Cy of Brockile, Tho
property is an irregularity shaped parce with frontage of 60.69 mates on Miiwood Avenue. The
proposed Fx portion of the overall holding i roguar in shapo, has an overall are of 2900.8
"square metres. The property is designated Neighbourhood Area inthe Ciy's Oficial Plan,

2. Provincial Policy Statement 2014

[A planning decisions undertaken by an authorly must be consistent with the Provincial Policy
Statoment 2014 adoptod April 30, 2014. Tho Stalomon’s vision for Onari’s land use planning
system focuses on long ‘erm prosperity for he province and individual communis by focusing

‘Fowth in urban areas and protecting natural and cultural resources,

Seution 1.0, Building Strong Hoathy Communities directs land use to achiovo efficient ana
resllont development and land use pattems” n a sustainable fashion, Efficient and .
‘developments to be achiovad by:

+ avoiding davolopment which may cause environmental or pube health and safety concerns,

+ promoting cost effective development pattoms and standards that will minimize land
Consumption and servicing costs,

+ ensuring that the nocessary infrastructure is in place

Growth and development is directed to existing settlement and urban areas and intensification fs
«encouraged. Development sorvicod by exiting infastructuro for tho provision of water and
Sewage services Is retorted andl starmwater management best practices are promoted. The
statement specially encourages the re-uso of existing propos and buildings.

Section 2.0, Wise Use and Management of Resources, outines policies specifically related to
resources being; consorving bio-dversy, protecting natural hortage, cultural heritage and
archaeological resources. Natural heritage lealures are protected forthe long term,

Page 28 of 46

Page 20! 4

‘Section 2.6, Cuitural Horitago and Archaooiogy, protects significant bult heritage sourcos and
signfcent cultural heritage landscapes and directs that these resourcos shall bo conserved.

‘Section 8.0, Protecting Pubic Health and Safety, diccts dovolopment away from natural and
human made hazards. There ae no hazaresefther natural or man made on orn the vicity of
these lands.

‘The proposed development wil result inthe construction of new residential units within an
existing neighbourhood using existing infrastructure for services and amenities, Therefore, the
proposed project can be considered consistont with tha Provincial Policy Statomont, 2014.

3.0 Official Plan

‘The City’s Otfcal Plan designates the lands as neighbourhood ara. Brockvie's Offical Plan
provides a general policy direction and planning framework to guide tho physical, social,
‘economic and environmental management and growth of the Cy of Brockville. Growth is
‘managed in tho City by rocting growth o existing bull aroas and areas where infrastructure Is
‘or whore itcan be logcaly extended.

‘The City’s vision that:

“Mayor and Council are committed to making Brockvilo a bettor place to lve, work and play
‘and o enjoy an oxcoptional qualty of if, Brockvile is committed to families, o an economy
that ofers opportunites to grow and prosper, to providing amenities that are second to none
‘and conducting our business in a way tht is both envronmontaly and tinancaly sustainable.”

“The City identifies planring goals and objectives inthis section of th plan into four specific
groups being: qually of amenities and services, sustainability ofthe City, the community and
People and he City’s economy. The proposal for zoning amendment compos with those
‘bjectives by providing,

+ High quality of residents design
+ Bull to groon enorgy standard
+ Optional residntial built form

‘The Pian ariculates Goals and Objectives in section 23 and outines how growth wil be
accommodated by providing: quay of amenities, sustainabily of the City, he community and
people and the City's economy. The appkcant has considered tho foragoing el accommodated

{he City’s priorities where appropriate. approved the projec wil
+ provide growth tothe economy, and :
+ Use existing infrastructure, and
+ not impact natura or cultural resources.

‘Section 3.4.1, Urban Design, stresses the Importance of promoting excellence in community
design. Elements tobe considered whon any new development is proposod to include:

|
|
|

( . Page 29 of 46,

Page 3 of 4

+ promote eticiont and cost-effective development design

+ promote the improvement ofthe physical charactor

+ encourage design that considers, and wherever posible continues, existing and tradtional
street patloms and neighbourhood sttucture,

‘Cty suppor inland redevelopment of designated and vacant lands

Goals outne that the development occurs in an ordety fashion an wl be connected to alt
‘municipal infrastructure. The accompanying documents include an addendum to the previously
‘submited Site Servicing Plan and a Storm Wator Management Plan that supports and provides
solutions for the proposed development

Section 2.1 focuses on the Principle of Sustainability and prioiizes green technology. The
Proposed build wil be constructed to achiovo tho Energy Star standard.

‘Section 43 rect that inthe Neighbourhood Avoa various densities of development can be
‘Supported and are encouraged to considar adjacent residential forms when designing infil
projects. The developer has considerod adjacont propor and has designed the proposed
structures to be comparable o existing but form.

Given the foregoing, the proposal can be considered to comply wih the policies, goals and
dections that exist within tho Offical Plan,

4.0 Zoning By-Law

“The current zoning of 6 does not permit the constructon of townhome dwelings but the RS
70n0 does allow forthe constuction of townhomes. Zone standards of by-law 050-2014 include:

+ Lot frontage 6.0 metres por unit
+ Minimum it area, 0m

+ Front yard 4.5m

+ Minimum exterior sie yard. 45m

+ Minimum interior side yard 12m

+ Minimum roar yar. 75m

+ Minimum ot depth, 25m

+ Minimum Landscaped Open Space, 30%

+ Maximum Height 25m

+ Maximum Dons, "75 units per hectare

‘As the subject lands wil be spt zoned by means of tis application, zoning review has been
"undertaken considering only those lands tobe amended to the RS zone,

‘Asite specific zone is being requastod in order to gain the folowing rb:
+ fear yard setback of 5.8m,
+ the 30% landscaped open space to 23.9%

Page 30 of 46

Page 4 of 4

{Al other zoning provisions and standards are met with the proposed Sx zone, An addtional
‘appiicalion to amend tho exiting site par wil oto.

5.0 Conclusion

“The proposed development wil result in new residential options forthe residents of Brockville
“Tho development as outed is uly compliant wih both the Provincial Policy Statement an tne
City Official Pian. The request 0 amend tho zoning toa site speciic zone can be supported by
the directions provided inthe City's planning documents

Jane Almond MCIP RPP
{akmondpmp@amailcom
613-889-1815


Page 31 of 46

SCHEDULE “D” TO REPORT 2016-120-09

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, July 05, 2016

Page 2 of 3

Mr. McGinnis provided’
amendment.

Councillor Dery asked if, yyone present who wished to speak in

‘persons completed the Request for Information form.

2016-088-07
Proposed Amendment to zoning By-law 050-2014

1115 Millwood Avenue, Owner: Sweetwater Homes Ltd.
Applicant: Jane Almond

Moved by: Councillor Bursey

THAT Report 2016-08-07 be received as information and that a report on
this matter be prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic
Development Planning Committee at a future meeting,

CARRIED

Councillor Deery, Chair, introduced the public meeting and read from the
prepared required comments,

Mr. McGinnis announced that notice of the Public Meeting was advertised in
the Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper on June 9, 2016 and was
Circulated to property owners within 120.0 metres (400.0 feet) of the
subject property. In addition, signs were posted on the subject property

Page 22 of 46

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, July 05, 2016

advising that the lands are the subject of an Application for Amendment to
the City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014,

Councillor Dery, asked that any person wanting further notice of the
passage of the proposed amendment should give their full name, address
and postal code to the Secretary prior to leaving the meeting.

Councillor Dery reviewed the procedures for the Public Meeting.

Mr. McGinnis provided an overview of the proposed zoning by-law
amendment.

Councillor Dery asked if there was anyone present who wished to speak in
favour of the amendment.

Ms. Jane Almond spoke in support of their application, stating that these
townhomes should prove to be more saleable for the developer.

No persons spoke against the application
‘The meeting adjourned at 6:20 pm.

No persons completed the Request for Information form.

Page 3 of 3

Page 23 of 46
SCHEDULE “E” TO REPORT 2016-120-09
Andrew McGinnis

From: Michael Dakin <meakin@crcaca>
Sent: June-26-16 1:10 PM

To: Lorraine Bagnel, Andrew McGinnis
ce Steve Alen

Subject: 1014-013 (1109 Millwood Ave)
Lorraine / Andrew:

‘CRCA staf have reviewed the application for Zoning By-law Amendment D14-013 for the proposed zoning change at
£1109 Millwood Avenue. The owner proposes to amend the zoning to permit a5 unit townhouse development on the
‘orth portion ofthe property in place ofthe previously approved 12 unit condominium building. We do not object in
principle to the proposed amendment to permit the townhouses. However, sine the proposed site-specific zone
Includes a reduction in the rear yard setback, as well asa reduction inthe required landscaped open space, these
changes may have implications that coud affect the development’sablity to meet CRCA minimum hazard setbacks
(23.5 mminimum to toe of slope, 6 m minimum from 1:100 year flood elevation} and may aso affect on-site
stormwater management.

The amount of hardened surface and the exact location ofthe previously proposed condo building were partly a
function of stormwater management capaciy/design and specific constraint associated with the flood plain and
‘erosion hazard on the subject properties. The conceptual Site Plan submitted with the proposed zoning amendment
shows changes tothe location and configuration of development that may or may not comply with natural hazard
setbacks and stormwater management requirements for this site.

‘Therefore, itis our opinion that itis critical that a revised Site Plan, including a Landscape and Grading Plan, and a
‘new Stormwater Management Plan be submited for review by the CRCA and City of Brockville Engineering staff prior
to approval ofthe proposed zoning amendment. Approval of an amendment to permit a specifc setback reduction
nd reduction in open space without necessary technical review would, In our opinion, be inappropriate at this time.
We formally recommend deferral of application 014-013 until such time that the dacuments noted above are submitted |
to the satisfaction of the CRCA and city of Broclle.

Please provide us with any notice of decision with regard to this application, Please aso provide these comments to
the applicant and/or consultant on our behalf. Finally, please contact me should you have any questions.

Best rgards,
Mike

Michael Dakin
Resource Planner

Cataraqui Region Conservation Authority

1661 Perth Road, PO Box 160, Glenburn ON, KOM 150
Phone: (613) 546-4228 ext. 228 Fax (613) 547.6474
Toll Free for Area code (613): 1.877-956.2722

Vist us onthe web: wew.crca.ca
‘wo leanwaercataraguica


Page 34 of 46,

SCHEDULE “F” TO REPORT 2016-120-09

CCATARAQUI REGION CONSERVATION AUTHORITY
‘dt Penh Road, PO. Box 10 abu, Ont MAH SD

Phone 3) 546-4228 ee ares cone 1877:956C8CA
Fa 1913476474, Emule cxa@etaaquregon once
‘Webites:winecleamaseetraqacs& waaay. O8

‘August 29,2016 File: ZBL/8R/129/2016
Sent by Emait

Andrew McGinnis
Planner I

City of Brockville

‘One King Street West
P.O. Box 5000
Brockville, ON K6V 7AS

Dear Mr. MeGinnis

[Re: Application for Zoning By-law Amendment D14-013 (1109 Millwood Ave)
Lot 11 & 12, Con. 2; 1109 Millwood Ave
Assessment Roll # 080202005201600
City of Brockville
‘Waterbody: Windsor Creek / Buells Creek Detention Basin

tif of the Cataraqui Region Conservation Authority (CRCA) have reviewed the above-noted
applications zoning bylaw amendment ad the following supporting documents:

Letter from Eastern Enginoerng, dated August 11,2016
Dwg. Cl ~ Site Plan, Eastern Engineering, August 11,2016

Dwg. C2 Landscape & Layout Plan, Easier Engineering, August 11,2016
‘Stormwater Management Report, Easter Engineering, August, 2016

In addition to our email comments provided June 27, 2016, we provide the following additional
comments for the City of Brockville’s consideration and aetioresponse by the applican/consultant
Specific items tobe addressed are numbered.

Proposal
The proposal involves a request to amend the zoning forthe subject property from Multiple Residents
‘Type 6 ~ (R6)’ to "Multiple Residential Type 5 Special Exception = (RS-X)’ in order to permit the
construction of five townhouse units on the northern portion ofthe property instead of the previously
approved 12 unit condominium building. The special exception zoning is required to permit a reduction in
the rear yard setback from 7.5 m to 4.9m,

CCRCA staff provided comments on the original Site Plan Control application forthe two cond buildings

in2013

Discussion

l

f
I

Page 35 of 46,

Me. MeGimis (D14-013)
‘August 29,2016

‘The mun interests of the CRCA in this application ae the avoidance of natural zards (flooding and
erosion) associated with Windsor Creek and the Buells Creek Detention Basin, and the implementation of
‘adequate on-site stommwater management and erosion and sediment contol.

Natural Hazards (Flooding

‘As previously noted in our 2013 Site Plan comments, the regulatory flood plain adjacent to the subject
property associated with Windsor Creek and the Buells Creek Detention Basin located downstream is
ntcipated to reach an elevation of 99.0 m GSC. In accordance with flood hazard avoidance policies of
the 2014 PPS and in acordance with the CRCA's Ontario Regulation 148/06, all new development on
the subject property must be located a minimum of 6m horizontal fram the flood line andthe lowest foot
ofall building and structures can be no lower than 99:3 m GSC.

Based on our review of the August 11, 2016 Site Plan, the new townhouse development appears
consistent with bth the 6m horizontal setback ad the 99.3 m vertical loodproofing standard

al Hazards (Erosion

tn our 2013 site Plan corespondence, staff also noted thatthe extent of the erosion hazard lit
sscocated with the creck embankment along the noth and westside of the propery was determined 1
inelde all land within 13.5 m ftom the te of slope. This number was determined based on the
charac (height, composition) a the cock embankment. In order to comply with applicable CRCA
repulsory pois, al ung and siroctres onthe subject propery must be locale ouside of the
rosion hazard imi aa minima orzo setback from the te of slope ofthe eres of 13 5m.

‘As currently proposed, the northwest comer of the townhouse development (anit) would be located at
‘approximately 10 m from the toe of slope, based on our review of the submitted Site Plan. This is closer
‘han te originally proposed condo building and is also within the erosion hazard limit.

Staff cannot support the proposed zoning amendment since the building location is within the
‘erosion hazard a8 defined By the CRCA.

1) We request that the location and/or configuration of the townhouse development be revised so
‘hat the no par of the building is within 13.5 m ofthe toe of slope.

‘Stoomwater Management
Quantiy Controt

A slighty larger bard surfce area than the previously approved Site Plan is now proposed. Inreased
storage i proposed inorder to continue to mest quantity contol objectives. Staff are satisfied with these

changes.
Flooding

Unit #1 the lowest unit (nearest to the ponding area), i proposed to havea floor elevation of 100.57. No
information onthe plans suggests that basements are proposed. However, the elevation athe top of the
driveway atthe garage opening is shown (100.30 on Unit #1). The 5-year ponding elevation and spill
point to Millwood Avenue of 100.16 is shown on the plans, but 100-year ponding, elevation is not
indicate. CRCA staff recommends that 100-yar flood depth for diving/parking areas rot exceed 0.25,
rm to ensure adequate safe access. CRA staf recommends atleast 0.3 m vertical freeboard from 100-

Page20f3

Page 36 of 46

Me. MeGimis (014-013)
‘August 29,2016

year flood/ponding elevations up to lowest floors, openings, et. of proposed dwelingvstructures. We
may recommend greater freeboard (eg 06m) depending on eieumstances,

2) CRCA staff recommends that 100year ponding clevation/extent (assuming blocked
«atchbasiovoutlet) be determined and shown on the plans to evaluate if properisafe access will be
provided and if adequate flood-proofing is proposed for the proposed townhouse. Please
Address/revise accordingly.

Quality Controt & Maintenance
‘An Beosense Stormwater filtration system is referenced in the Stormwater Management Report

3) Staff recommends that additonal supporting information (e.g  drawingvaintenance
frequency/proceduelcontact info for fter replacement, et.) for the Ecosense Stormwater filtration
system be included in the SWM report, perhaps as an appendix, Please addessirevise.

4) Sta recommends thatthe inspection/maintsnance frequencyprocedure for eatchbasins be detailed in
the SWM repor to give those responsible for maintenance a beter indication of how to determine
nen maintenance is required and how it should be cartied-out. Please address/revise.

Recommendation
‘Sta recommend deferral of application D14-013 based on the above comment relating othe insuficient
erosion hazard setback for the new townhouse development. Since the zoning amendment involves a
specific reduction inthe required rear yard setback (7.5 to 4.9 m) and itis posible that this number may
need to change in order to achieve the minimum erosion hazard setback, it i ovr opinion thatthe
amendment should not be approved until the necesary revisions to the site plan are completed to the
satisfaction ofthe CRCA and City of Brockville,

‘The remaining items (#2, 3 & 4) canbe addressed as part of the full ite Plan approval process once the
Zoning Amendment is upproved

Ontario Regulation 148/06
A discussed, the CRCA has a Regulation controling Development, Interference with Wetlands, and
Alterations to Shorelines and Watercourses (Ontario Regulation 148/06), made pursuant to Section 28 of
the Conservation Authorities dct. Permission under Ontario Regulation 148/06 is required from this
office prior to development or site alteration on the subject lands. A permit must be obtained for
proposed townhouse complex from the CRCA. In order to issue a permit, the minimum erosion
hazard setback discussed above must be met.

Please inform this office in writing of any decisions made by the City of Brockville regarding these
applications. Ifyou have any question, please contact the undersigned at (613) 546-4228 extension 228,
‘or vi e-mail at maingerea.ca

‘Yours tal

ADA

Michael Dakin
Resource Planner

Colin Jardine, Easter Engineering, Engnesing Constant, via mall

Page 30f 3

“ONCEPTUAL

iNaaHOsS

60-0Z1-9L0Z LYOdae OL «D» 37

‘9 10 2 abe


Page 38 of 46,

REPORT TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING COMMITTEE ~
September 6, 2016

2016-122-09

ight of Way Norton Lane Sandra MacDonald
Request by Kathy VanDusen City Clerk
RECOMMENDED

‘THAT Council authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to execute a licence
agreement with Ms, Kathy VanDusen, 16 Louis Street, Brockville for the use
of a portion of Norton Lane on the west side of Norton Street to access a
parking area on the rear of the 16 Louis Street properties.

PURPOSE

Ms. VanDusen has made a request to the City for use of the unopened
laneway to access a driveway (to be installed) on the rear yard of 16 Louis
Street as there is insufficient space to create a driveway off Louis Street.

ANALYSIS

The applicant contacted the Planning Department to determine how a
driveway could be created for the property at 16 Louis Street. The
configuration of the properties in this older part of the City do not have
sufficient frontage to be able to create a driveway.

Staff recommends the approval of an agreement with the property owner for
the use of the Norton Lane (indicated in red in the drawing above). The
unopened lane is approximately 20 feet in width and is located on the west


Page 29 of 46

Report 2016-122-09
Liconse Agreement 16 Louis Street Page 2

side of Norton Street which runs behind the properties on Louis Street,
ending behind 26 Louis Street. The laneway is unmarked and has been used
from time to time by Riverside Ford who were unaware of the location of the
lane. They have no issues with the proposed agreement and have
suggested that curb stops be installed to mark the property to ensure that it
is kept clear.

‘The proposal was circulated to the Operations, Environmental Services and
Planning Departments for review and comment. The Operations Department
requires that the property owner provides a gravel surface (or better) for the
lane, and accepts responsibility and liability for the maintenance and use of
the lane.

Page 40 of 46,

Report 2016-122-09
License Agreement 16 Louis Street Page 3

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS

There are no financial considerations associated with this report. All costs,
including legal, will be borne by the applicant.

D. Dick, CPA, CA
Director of Corporate Services.

®-Cassoiman

City Manager


Page 41 of 46,

Association of Municipalities of Ontario
2016 Annual Conference Review
By: Councillor Leigh Bursey

This year’s Association of Municipalities of Ontario annual networking and learning conference
100k place at Ceasars’ Casino in Windsor, Ontario. Attended by over 1200 delegates, the
conference was one of the largest ones in recent memory and covered a whole host of
Incredible and informative discussions and presentations. it has been challenging to get
members of our local council to attend the conference, and understandably so. There isa
direct cost to attending these types of conferences, and while it might be a drop in the bucket
in comparison to many of our other annual costs, there is alot of information that becomes
avalable by attending these events. At any given time, the conference floor is itered with
informative literature, provincial ministers, and municipal leaders from all over Ontario at all
levels.

Being that this year’s conference took place so far away, there were of course rental costs,
hotel costs, and various other travel fees. As per usual, as someone who sees great value in
attending this specific conference and also has to publicly answer for incurred expenses, like
to bring back as much information as can for the couneillors and public who could not attend.
| have chosen to make it customary, and | hope you find it informative. Unlike previous years, |
plan to outline the most relevant and interesting factoids, and provide you with a more basic
‘overview of the conference, as these reports tend to become onerous and are often quite
lengthy. Here isa snapshot of some of the information | have gathered.

Keynote Address by Patrick Brown,
Ontario Progressive Conservative Party Leader

Patrick’s speech was both hopeful for the future and incredibly critical ofthe current provincial
government as would be expected. That said, his keynote address was miles ahead of last
year’s presentation. Its obvious that as the newly minted leader of the official opposition,
Patrick has focused a tremendous amount of his time reaching out to relevant stakeholders and
‘municipal governments. His talking points were smooth, coherent and legitimate, making
statements ike “the only way that municipalities can thrive Isto give them the tools to succeed
‘and attract investment.” These types of grandiose statements sound good to the general
political population, but the sitting government would argue that they are already doing just
that. Without concrete examples, these types of talking points don’t amount to much.

As his presentation continued, Patrick focused much of his time on providing the examples
necessary to prove his point, There was great emphasis on rising energy costs. Patrick often
highlights that Ontario has the highest electricity rates in North America, just beating Hawall
‘which is an island that is 1000km from land and energy generation. This point has been greatly

Page 42 of 46

disputed as of late by recent findings of independent Ontario financial authorities. Where he
‘excelled in sending his point home was in ralsing ire on more indisputable concerns, such as
‘Ontario's sale of energy at mere pennies on the dollar. While municipalities are being pinched
to ust cover their energy costs, more is being generated then is needed. “To give away energy
‘at pennies on the dollars ridiculous.”

‘The green energy focus continued with statements such as “municipalities must have a say in
‘what goes in their own boundaries,” which may be of particular interest to some green energy
developments in south eastern Ontario.

‘Another area of focus was on the “downloading by stealth’ of provincial health care costs. This
focus may be of particular interest to our municipality as this very discussion has been on our
table on more than one occasion. Furthermore, a revealing statistic which might also be of
Interest to us locally is that long term care homes used to receive up to an eighty percent
‘subsidy and pay their share of property taxes, but now as that subsidy is being removed, so is
the municipality's ability to properly tax the establishment, which not only creates a strain on
the long term care residence in terms oftheir operating revenue, but also the municipality in
terms oftheir tax revenue.

‘As frontline mental health workers have been put on the chopping block, there is more
‘emphasis on police, who were never expected to be mental health support care workers.
‘According to Patrick’s research, some police departments are reporting that half of their calls
‘are mental health related. As we continue to hammer the rising costs of emergency services,
‘we have to be aware of this challenge. Patrick’s presentation was strong, but it wasn’t without
its flaws. While it was clear and offered many examples of bureaucratic inadequacy, he dida’t
‘offer many concrete examples of how his government would do it better. While we are two
years out from a provincial election, and there is plenty of time for platform planks to be
fleshed out, we need concrete solutions, and not merely examples of staggering problems.
‘That said, what was clear is that Patrick seems to have a pretty decent understanding of the
challenges facing our municipalities and others of our size and makeup. Andrea Horwath's|
presentation was also excellent, but being the second place opposition leader, her address was
later in the day and didn’t offer many talking points that were tremendously different than
what Patrick had already presented,

Keynote Address by President Gary MacNamara, Association of Municipalities of Ontario
and Highlights of Premier Kathleen Wynne’s Keynote Address and Question/Answer Period

President MacNamara’s farewell address was filled with nuggets of information on the
direction that the Association of Municipalities of Ontario is taking. This information is
Important because we are dues paying members of the association, and deserve to know what
the primary focuses of the organization will be moving forward. As we often highlight that

Page 43 of 46,

board level information isn’t always forthcoming to the council floor, this address helps to give
‘a clearer indication of where resources are being allotted,

MacNlamara spoke with great disdain about the legal falings of municipalities on the joint and
severed liabilities file. This theme was continuously hammered home during the “bull pit”
session later in the conference as well. He highlighted that “delegates grilled the Premier when
Interest arbitration and insurance liability are mentioned, and the impacts of both are
Unacceptable.” He was referring to the very fragmented open-question segment with Premier
‘Wynne at the beginning ofthe conference, which though brief and fairly controlled, was
referred to as “covering alot of ground at a high level.”

‘The provincial carbon tax also continues to be of tremendous focus.

When the Premier was asked about “fire medics,” there seemed to be some pushback, as many
believe that the focus should be on where the concern is really needed, and that is the
paramedic service.

Inone of the more odd and obscure moments of President MacNamara's speech, he put great
‘emphasis on the assumed pending legalization of marijuana. “We are on top of i,” Mr.
MacNiamara explained, as he would go on to (in my humble opinion) waste ample time and
effort on complaining that this legislation “will create further legal, planning and court costs,”
when there isno data to support that. In fact, much data suggests that ths legalization could
‘create jobs and businesses, and should actually cut down on unnecessary court costs. There is
more data to suggest the later, but litle conclusive data on hearsay legislation that hasn’t been
formulated on properly vetted. Thisis also a federal issue, and I have to voice my concerns on
this particular piece being a primary speaking point by the president of the association. |
‘wouldn't want to simply assume from a few words in an address what this really alludes to, but
it does sound like an opportunity where municipal leaders are expecting an already broke
{federal government to pony up funding and resources, when this could conceivably save
‘municipalities money on its own. | don’t know if a hand out makes sense, nor do | assume it is
possible. So | have to question why a provincial organization is ambiguously lobbying on
legislation that has not yet been formed.

‘There was also some focus on the “fire-sale” of HydroOne, because alot of the argument that
Initiated the sale was that money was needed for infrastructure, but infrastructure allocation
has not changed “one red cent” according to Patrick Brown, who also echoed this theme.

Other Key Focuses of the Conference

AMO is known for its breakout sessions, which are not nearly as well attended as the keynote
‘addresses which tend to really outline key platform plants and provincial happenings. That
said, there isno shortage of valuable information and topics up for debate. These topics
include: Improving Transparency and Building Confidence in Ontario's Assessment System,

Page 44 of 46,

which focused on “MPAC’s commitment to improved performance and enhanced stakeholder
‘experience remains strong,” and how there have been “significant efforts made to engage with
‘and assist municipalities and property owners in planning the 2036 Assessment Update.” The
session discussed market trends and ongoing enhancements to the property assessment
process. Other sessions included Making User Fees and Tax Levies Work: Innovative Municipal
Case Studies (much of this information is available online if you are interested) and plenty of
focus “Improving Quality of Life,” “Ontario's Sharing Economy,” and the challenges and
‘opportunities created by “retirement communities.”

Interesting Findings

‘The Association of Municipalities of Ontario conference's annual trade show offered plenty of
Interesting vendors and a variety of innovative products. Here isa brief lst of the ones that |
{ound stood out and that are worth exploring. Coupled with that information, | will use this
section to highlight informative tidbits that | found in some ofthe reading materials handed out
‘on the trade show floor

‘The Fuel and Lubricant Program available through PFA Canada seemed lke a worthwhile piece
to investigate. It focuses not only on providing fuel and lubricants ata fair prices, but also on
‘establishing a fuel management system to ease administrative stresses. This includes cheaper
fuel, essential service status, elimination of administrative hassle, flexibility, technology
(internal and external efficiencies lie in the proprietary software which monitors invoice values
‘and accuracy, among other information), price changes and forecasts

‘Then there was the Greyter Home solution program, which effectively recycles shower and
bath water so that it can be reused for toilet flushing and irrigation. This program reduces
indoor water consumption by twenty-five to thirty percent, and reduces hot water heating
costs (in an already expensive home heating climate) with drain water heating recovery. This
mechanism has been installed at fre stations, schools and other institutions, such as the
‘Oakuille Fire Station,

Another interesting find was the new self-cleaning, vandal resistant, anti-graffiti stand-alone
restroom, which seems to be a new popular concept that might be worth looking at for outdoor
parks and multi-purpose sports facilities. The company is called Sagelec Canada, and on an
international level they have over 3900 units already installed worldwide. This might not be the
right fit for us, but it is worth investigating as we look at a new multi-purpose sports facility.

‘Other booths highlighted information about how “home sharing is boosting Ontario's economy
while helping regular people stay afloat,” highlighting how 616,000 “guests from around the
world stayed with Ontario hosts last year,” and how $8.79 million was “earned by Ontario
residents sharing thelr homes through Airbnb last year.” This isa growing trend that is on the
‘cusp of becoming an even larger booming industry that Brockville is well positioned to take part

Page 45 of 46,

in, Whatever types of incentives we can be offering within reason to this industry will only
further enrich our local economy.

‘The CodeRED program stood out as innovative for a community facing a variety of age and
technological gaps of knowledge, and is “designed to enable local government officals to
record, send and track personalized voice, emall and text messages to thousands of citizens in
minutes, as part of your emergency management preparedness plan connecting residents and
staff to the information they need.”

‘The Energy Services Association of Canada provided a list of case studies of municipalities that
are using energy service performance contracts that include some comparator cities such as
Orangeville, which is projected to saves $1.2 milion over seven facilities, which works out to a
{guaranteed savings of $176,000 per year over a seven year payback. | have made sure to
include that information along with a variety of other pamphlets to the appropriate staff
members

‘My favourite program that | found was a system by InSyne, which is North America’s “most
‘effective adaptive traffic control system,” which “adjusts signal timing and sequencing based on
real time traffic conditions lke volume and delay.” The system is “compatible with all modern
traffic controllers and cabinets.” One of the mest common complaints! hear about asa city
‘counaillor in this city is about our lighting infrastructure. If this type of improvement is found to
be cost efficient, this could improve and increase the flow of traffic through our main
‘commercial corridors, which could prove to be advantageous.

‘Another interesting tidbit was how municipalities have been able to access funding through the
provincial infrastructure ministry to renovate old historic bulldings and repurpose them as
‘community hubs that include non-profit and affordable housing, shelter, and skills
development. A great example of this highlighted in the frst year’s progress report, where
they profile the Timmins Native Friendship Centre, and affordable housing in Parry Sound. This
information is available in the report that | have made available to staf. If there is funding
avalable to save and repurpose these properties, it might be worth having a second look at
‘some previous ideas that have failed.

‘And as a final note from the trade show, the provincial government is currently soliciting ideas
‘on “how to cut red tape and improve regulations,” through an initiative called the “Red Tape
Challenge.” | would encourage our council to draft some ideas based on our experiences on
how to voice some of our ongoing concerns with troubled legislation and process. We can take
the Red Tape Challenge at Ontario.ca/redtapechallenge.

Closing Comments

‘There is no shortage of value to be found at a conference of this nature, With enough
Investigating, any one of these ideas could create opportunity for savings, revenue, and

Page 46 of 46,

efficiency. | would also like to congratulate Mayor David Henderson on his election/re-election
to the AMO Board of Directors. As President MacNamara said last year, “If you're not on the
table, you may find out you're on the menu.”

‘The conference heads to Ottawa next year, which is not only closer for travel time, but wil also
make for a more affordable opportunity for more of our council to join us should they choose
to, hope to see you there

