Page

at

Gy
BROCKVILLE

[CRY OF THE TOO TSTARDS

Page 1 of 1

Economic Development and

Planning Committee

Tuesday, December 3, 2013, 6:00 pm.

City Hall, Council Chambers

‘Committee Members
Councillor M. McFall, Chair
Councillor D. Beatty
Councillor M. Kalivas
Councillor D. LeSueur
Mayor D. Henderson, Ex:
Officio

‘Acoas of Responsibiliy
Eoonomic Development
Planning

Chamber of Commerce
DBIA

Heritage Brockville

Economie Development
‘Advisory Team
Museum Board

Library Board

‘Arts Centre

Tourism

tem

1. 2013-19912

Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-law 194-94

PUBLIC MEETING
AGENDA

241 Park Street, City of Brockville
‘Owner: 1522868 Ontario Ltd,

File: D14-170

THAT Report 2013-139-12 be received as information and that a report on
this matter be prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic
Development Planning Committee at a future meeting.

Pago 2 of 1

22Nov2013
REPORT TO THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE - PUBLIC
MEETING ~ 3 DECEMBER 2013

2013-139-12

PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO ZONING BY-LAW 194-94 M. PASCOE MERKLEY
241 PARK STREET DIRECTOR OF PLANNING
CITY OF BROCKVILLE ANDREW MCGINNIS
OWNER: 1522868 ONTARIO LIMITED PLANNER I
FILE: D14-170

RECOMMENDED:

THAT Report 2013-139-12 be received as information and that a report on this matter
be prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic Development Planning
Committee at a future meeting.

PURPOSE

To provide information for purposes of conducting a public meeting under the Planning
Act respecting an Applicaton for Amerdmert to City of Brocklle Zoning Bylaw 194-
4.

BACKGROUND

Mr. Surinder Gill, acting on behalf of 1522868 Ontario Limited, owner of Lots 1 and 2,
Part Lots 17 and 18, being Part 3, Reference Plan 28R-11690, City of Brockville,
County of Leeds, municipal address 241 Park Streat (as shown on Schedule “A"), has
‘submitted an application for an amendment to Zoning By-law 194-94 which would, if
‘approved, amend the current special exception zoning on the subject property to add an
eat.in restaurant as a permitted use in addition to those uses currently permitted in the
C1-X4-1 Local Commercial Special Exception Zone.

‘The proposal for the lands is to utilize part of the existing building for a proposed
restaurant with a proposed outdoor patio and barrier free ramp to be located on the
north side of the building which will provide access to the building as well as additional
‘seasonal seating for the proposed restaurant.

ANALYSIS

Zoning and Official Plan information:

Official Plan Designation: Neighbourhood Area within Mixed Use Corridor

2013-130-12 Page2

Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-Law 194-94

241 Park Street, City Of Brockville

‘Owners: 1522868 Ontario Limited

Fle: D14-170

Existing Zoning: C1-X4-1. Local Commercial Special Exception Zone
{attached as Schedule “A-1")

Proposed Zoning: C1-X4-1 Local Commercial Special Exception Zone ~
amended to allow for an eat-in restaurant with outdoor patio.

Site Characteristics:

Total Area: 1,950.96 m? (21,000.00 ft")

Frontage: 30.48 m (100.00 ft.)

Depth: 64.0 (210.0)

The subject land is currently occupied by an older commercial building containing a
convenience store and one retail store.

“The property also consists of a green area with mature trees in the northwest comer of
the property, with entrances from Amy Street, Park Street and Front Avenue all leading
‘to paved parking areas surrounding the building to the north, west and south.

Photos of th

subject property are attached as Schedule “B” to this report.
‘Surrounding Land Use:

‘The subject land is located with frontage on Park Street; Amy Street boarders the
property to the north; and Front Avenue boarders the property to the south.

North: Lands to the north of Amy Street are zoned R2 - Single Unit Residential
Zone with a legally non-conforming commercial use on the property at the
north east comer of Park and Amy Street.

East: ‘The lands to the east (south side of Amy Street and north side of Front
Avenue) are zoned R2 - Single Unit Residential Zone and are occupied by
‘a mix of older residential dwellings.

South: ‘The lands to the south (south side of Front Avenue) are zoned It -
General Institutional Zone and are occupied by the Thousand Island
Baptist Church.

The lands to the south west (west side of Park Street) are zoned R7-
Mutliple Residential Zoned and are occupied by a four level apartment
building

West: The lands to the west (west side of Park Street) are zoned R2 - Single
Unit Residential Zone and are occupied by a mix of residential dwellings.

Pago Sof 11

Page 4 of 1

2o1s-130-12 Pages
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-Law 194-94

241 Park Street, City Of Brockville

‘Owners: 1522868 Ontario Limited

File: D14-170

‘Comments received are summarized below,

1

‘Steve Allen, Supervisor of Engineering, Environmental Services Department:
‘Not opposed to the application.

Brent Caskenette, Chief Building Official, Planning Department:
‘© Nocomments or concerns.

Greg Healy, Fire Prevention Officer, Brockville Fire Department:
‘= No fire safety concerns at this time; however, the Fire Prevention Office
‘wishes to be circulated on any site plan and building changes.

Conal Cosgrove, Director of Operations
‘© Nocomments.

Sandra Seale, City Clerk
‘+ Request that the number of parking spaces lost to the outdoor patio be
‘minimal to ensure that parking demand can be met on site. Additionally, a
brochure was provided with recommendations for accessible outdoor
patios. (The brochure prepared by Brockville Municipal Accessibilty
‘Advisory Committee is attached as Schedule “ is

Conseil Des Ecoles Catholiques Du Centre-Est
‘+ Noconcem.

Boll Aliant
‘+ No objection.

Letter from Neighbour — Amy Street (attached as Schedule “D" to this report)
‘+ Hour of operation.
‘+ Does not believe that there should be a liquor license,
‘© Drainage of the site.
‘+ Concemed with the Waste enciosure location.

Potential Issues for Discussion:

1
2.
3

Appropriateness of proposed amendment to add a restaurant
Proposed location for the outdoor seasonal patio.
Neighbourhood impacts, if any.

a permitted use.

2013-13942 Page 4
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-Law 194-94

241 Park Street, City Of Brockville

‘Owners: 1522868 Ontario Limited

File: 14-170

POLICY IMPLICATIONS:

‘The contents ofthis report are provided for information purposes for the Public Meeting.
Following the Public Meeting, Planning Department Staff will prepare a report which will
include review and consideration of policies that are relevant to the requested
amendment.

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS:

‘There are no financial considerations at this time.

CONCLUSION

‘A Report on this matter, including a detailed analysis of the proposed amendment,
review and consideration of the issues raised at the public meeting and a
recommendation from Planning Staff, will be prepared for consideration of the Economic
Development Planning Committee at a future meeting

Director of Planning

a

City Manager

Pago Sof 1

[ayy SCHEDULE “A” TO REPORT 2013-1 aoe

eh IN

190 6 of 11

SCHEDULE “A-1” TO REPORT 2013-139-12

ZONING BY-LAW 194-94, SECTION 8.0, SUBSECTION 8.4

Db}

C1-X4-1 Zone (Front Avenve/Park Street)

‘The uses permiied in the C1-X4-1 zone shall be those uses permited in the C'-Local
Commercial Zone, and Service Use, and a real food store having @ maximum gross

leasable oor area of 300 square metres (3.220 square fet).

‘The zone provisions forthe C1-X4-1 Zone shal be as olows:

Pago 7 11

Minimum Lot Area

2,950 am. (31,750 8a)

Minimum Lot Frontage 20m (sit)
Minimum Front Yard (Front Avenue frontage) _| 7.5 (25 t)
Minimum Interior Side Yard 3m (oR)
Minimum Exterior Side Yard (Park Steet | Ni

frontage)

Minimum Rear Yara (Amy Stret frontage) | 6 m (20%)
Maximum Bulking Height 105m (94
Minimum Landscaped Open Space 10%,

Butlering of Parking (where parking abuts a residential use) - a sod fence having a
minimum height of 2 metres (6.5 1.) shall be provided where parking abuts a residential

Parking may be provided in the required tron yard to within 1 metro (3:3 feet) ofthe Front

‘Avenue right-of-way,

Page 8 of 1

SCHEDULE “B” TO REPORT 2013-139-12


Rationale:
To ensure that basic requirements are
met with tho installation of seasonal
patios. Within this document are clear
Quidelines to entrance areas, aisle widths,
table heights, obstructions, seating
requirements and general construction of
the patio. Set out in this document a
wall are the minimum requirements with
these parameters. as wall as further
recommendations that encompass. the
{al accessible patio. It is BMAAC's
on that a fully accessible patio wil
assist downtown restaurants in obtaining
more customers and users

Entrance to Patio:

Design Requirements:

*Be on an accessible route and have
access and mobility routes of a
minimum of 42 in,

‘An accessible route should exist from
the sidewalk, roadway, and parking
area to the entrance of the patio.

‘+ At doorways, it is required that 37.5 in.

p allowed for maneuvering space

=the patio have a minimum depth of 96
in and built with a slope to ensure
removal of water and any materials that
may cause slippage

The accessible entrance area must
have a level access or an entrance
threshold of a maximum of .5 high. If
there are steps or if the entrance
threshold is higher, an accessible ramp
is needed to allow access for scooters
and wheelchairs

+ Steps must be marked with a textured
strip or colour change and have a
hand railing for assistance

‘= The aisles /pathways in the patio area
must be at least 36° wide. Ideally
access widths should be 54” to allow
for a wheelchair and a person walking
bbe able to pass freely

'* Ground & Floor surfaces of the patio
and walkways shall be stable, fir, slip
resistant and glare free, if grating
‘exists openings cannot be larger than

5 in. aS wheelchair wheels or canes
could catch within,

Obstructions/Pathways:

‘Tho entrances, aisles, _ pathways
outside of the patio must be free of
protruding objects such as trees,
awnings, planters, A-Board signs, and
decorations to allow for a clear
pathway of atleast 42" at all times.

‘* Overhangs shall not have a size of
more than 12" to ensure that visibility
within the walkway is not limited at all

‘If gratings exist in walking surfaces,
spaces must not be greater than .5*
wide in one direction

‘If there are changes in level of the
patio, the following applies; 0 to 6mm
the edge treatment may be vertical, 6
to 13mm a bevel must be used with a
‘maximum slope 1:2, and over 13mm a
ccurb ramp must exist

BROCKVILLE
MUNICIPAL,
ACCESSIBILITY
ApvisorY
Committee

OUTDOOR SEASONAL SIDEWALK
PATIO RECOMMENDATIONS

Helping make your business
accessible to all

~Our Goal - Accessibility a Reality~

ZL-GEL-EL0Z LUOdSY OLD, 37NG3HoS

L106 96e¢

Seating/Table/Work Surfaces
Requirements:

‘* Clearance for mobility within patio
‘must be at least 30°. Ideally a 96"
tuming circle would provide
individuals with —_scooters/
wheelchairs the ability to turn and
‘maneuver throughout the patio

‘+ Atthe very least 10% of accessible
public tables shall comply with the
following:

(eA table clearance of at least 28°,
which also allows for at least 19° of
clearance space undemeath the
table to ensure proper knee space
is met (see figure 4.3.7.1)

© Ensure that a person using a
wheelchair can sit beside an able
bodied companion with comfort

Additional Recommendations:

BMAAC recommends that the
establishment consult Education
for Quality Accessibility to have
‘an assessment completed for the
entire premises and to obtain the
Intemational symbol of
Accessibility to identify that the
restaurant is accessible,

‘That a specific designated area
be assigned for accessible
passenger pick-up/drop-off

‘An accessible washroom be
available at the establishment as

well as signs noting the
washrooms location.
‘An established plan of evacuation

for persons with disabilities from
the patio area be created and
implemented.

Colour contrasting between the
railings/guards, surrounding
surfaces, and the surface of the
patio exist

Usage of non-scented cleaning
products

you have any questions or concems, or
would like the BMAAC Committee’ to
assist you in making your business or
‘outdoor seasonal patio accessible to all,
please feel free to contact Mr. Ryan
Billing, Chair, at 342-5775 or at
RYAN@NSICANADA.COM

Ly 1001 986

Page tt of 11

” TO REPORT 2013-139-12
‘Maureen Pascoe Merkley
From:
Sent: ‘Tuesday, November 26,2013 10:24 PM
To: Maureen Pascoe Merkley
Subject: Zoning By-Law Amendment241 Park St 014-170

Director of Planning
City Hall
One king st. LA

Re: Fle No.014-170 Zoning By-Law Amendment at 241 Park t. Brockville.

‘The proposed amendment to add a permitted use of an eat-in restaurant tothe uses curently permitted snot an
unfavourable adsition

However the generality of the description of an eat-in restaurant leaves afew questions. The site specific zoning should
be speeific to list how the business is to operate, to ensure the commercial activity ofthe eat-in restaurant remains
‘within the currently residential neighbourhood, friendly uses, as listed in the C1 Zoning. Hours of operation could be
limited to ensue late night operations do not deter from the peaceful nights currently enjoyed in our neighbourhood.
{Also a liquor icence would not be in keeping with the current uses at this location.

{site plan forms pat of this site specific zoning and upon review of that ste plan it appears a mistake has been made by
the engineer designing the plan. As | was advised the drainage ofthe pave area was to result in deposit into the grass

- within the property at the north west side. The elevations shown on the plan, which are existing, would direct all
flow from the paved services to the eastside ofthe property and result in depositing the run of precipitation onto the
‘vacant lot tothe east, A solid curb is proposed along the eastside and space parking curbs along the north and west ide
‘of the pavement area. The design of the parking lot would result in all the runoff precipitation flowing into Amy St and
run easterly tothe catch basins in front of 17 Amy St, 2 lots away. This area of Amy Sts already flooded during the
winter as the stret is narrow and the plow pushes snow onto the sidewalks andthe sidewalk plow pushes it back into
the street and covers the catch basins. Drainage ofthe parking area shouldbe retained within the property of 241 Park
St

‘The wood fence proposed along the east property line Is a compromise tothe existing zoning by-!aw by not requiring a
buffer zone as was required in a earlier site plan agreement at this property. The buffer zone coud be less ofan ise if
the wood fence was required to cover the full length ofthe east commercial property line a the plan shows an area at
the south end by the proposed waste enclosure where there isno fence shown along the propery line. The full
commercial property line shouldbe fenced.

‘The proposed waste enclosure is proposed to be only 1 meter from the property line. As the north sie yard of the
building is consumed by this proposal t would be a better location for the waste enclosure on the south side against the
building on either side of the existing wooden landing which accesses the commercial operation associated to this
application.

‘Thank you for the opportunity to comment on the Zoning By-Law Amendment for 241 Park.

Amy St.
Brockville, ON

