QO Economic Development &

BROCKVILLE Planning Committee
Tuesday, June 02, 2015, 5:15 pm
COMMITTEE MINUTES City Hall, Council Chambers

Members Present:
Councillor 3. Baker, Chair
Councillor L. Bursey

Councillor M. Kalivas

Councillor D. LeSueur

Mayor D. Henderson, Ex-Officio

Others:
Councillor T. Blanchard
Councillor P. Deery
Councillor J. Earle

Staff:
Mr. C. Cosgrove, Director of Operations

Mr. J. Faurschou, Planner I

Mr. A. McGinnis, Planner IT

Ms. S. MacDonald, City Clerk (Recording Secretary)
Ms. M. Pascoe-Merkley, Director of Planning

Mr. D. Paul, Director of Economic Development

‘The Chair called the meeting to order at 5:15 p.m.
DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST

Mayor Henderson declared a conflict with regard to Staff Report No. 2015-062-06,
Rockford Forest Subdivision as he has a financial interest in adjacent property on
Fitzsimmons Drive.

DELEGATIONS AND PRESENTATIONS

Rockford Forest Subdivision
(Mr. Brendan O'Connor MCIP, RPP)

Mr. O'Connor addressed the Committee regarding Rockford Forest
Subdivision application.

Page 1 of 6

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Committee Minutes -
Tuesday, June 02, 2015

(CORRESPONDENCE
Nil.

‘STAFF REPORTS

1. 2015-062-06
Draft Approval, Proposed Plan of Subdivision
Part Lot 11, Concession 2, City of Brockville
Rockford Forest Subdivision
Owner: Cathedral Enterprises Ltd.
Agent: Eastern Engineering Group Inc.
File: O8T-14501

Moved by: Councillor LeSueur

THAT approval be granted to the Draft Plan of Subdivision on lands described as Part of Lot
11, Concession 2, City of Brockville, County of Leeds, subject to the following conditions:

i) That these conditions shall apply to the Draft Plan prepared by Robert J. Jordan, O.LS.,
dated 22 July 2014, showing one street, Flanders Road, and Blocks 1 through 12,
inclusive, said Road and Blocks being delineated as to use on the afore-mentioned
Draft Plan;

ii) That the proposed Street shown on this Draft Plan shall be dedicated as a public
highway to be named “Flanders Road’;

ii) ‘That prior to final approval of the Plan, the Owner shall enter into a Subdivision
Agreement with the City of Brockville which shall specify, among other things:

1. All of the requirements, financial and otherwise, of the City of Brockwille
concerning, but not limited to, the provision of roads, street lighting, easements
{and the installation of services, drainage facilities, as well as:

a) the provision of screening of dwellings located on Fitzsimmons Drive
which back onto Flanders Road, and

b) _cashin-lieu of parkland dedication.
2. The requirement of the Brockville Fire Department for an acceptable number of

hydrant locations and capacity and location to ensure emergency services
‘access and firefighting capabilities;

Page2 of 8

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Committee Minutes -
Tuesday, June 02, 2015

iy)

‘The requirements of Canada Post with respect to the location, installation of
‘Community Mailboxes and associated easement(s) and consideration of various,
conditions as set out by Canada Post. In addition, all such work must comply
with current Canada Post requirements as provided by Canada Post at the time
Of start of construction;

The requirements of Enbridge Gas Distribution Inc., with respect to the provision
of easements), installation and clearance requirements, a composite utility plan,
street grading requirements, field survey information, road cross-sections, and
consideration of various other conditions as set out by Enbridge Gas Distribution
Inc.

‘The requirements of Hydro One Networks Inc. with respect to the installation of
electrical servicing, associated easement(s) and restriction of development on
the existing 10.06 m easement;

The requirements of Cogeco Cable Canada Inc. with respect to the provision of
‘easement(s) and installation of Cable servicing and associated easement(s):

‘The requirements of Bell with respect to the provision of easement(s) and
installation of communication/telecommunication infrastructure and consideration
of various other conditions as set out by Bell

‘The developer's responsibilty to prepare a Tree Saving Plan and Tree Planting
Schedule for each lot for review and approval by the City of Brockville prior to
development of each lot

Placement of a 25 metre buffer around the “Archivable" tree on Lot 6, Removal
‘and subsequent development of the lots affected by the buffer is subject to
‘obtaining written approval from the Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources and
Forestry (NRF).

‘That prior to final approval of the Plan, lot grading, drainage, erosion and sediment
control, and services plan with best management practices be prepared by a qualified
Professional Engineer for the Owner, to the satisfaction of the City of Brockville and the
Cataraqui Region Conservation Authority, and that appropriate text to implement its

findings shall be included in the Subdivision Agreement;

v) That prior to the final approval of the Plan, a detailed Stormwater Management Brief
shall be prepared by a qualified Professional Engineer for the Owner, to the satisfaction
of the City of Brockwille and the Cataraqui Region Conservation Authority, and that
‘appropriate text to implement its findings shall be included in the Subdivision

‘Agreement,

Page 3 of 6

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Committee Minutes -
Tuesday, June 02, 2015

vi)

vil)

vil)

ix)

x)

xi)

xi)

Page 4 of 8

That in conjunction with the proposed construction plan, the Owner shall provide
specific locations and dates (i.e. set-up and removal) for all construction/sales buildings,
structures andior trailers, outdoor toilets, etc. Said locations shall be to the satisfaction
Of the City of Brockville prior to placement. Any and all such temporary structures shall
bbe located only for so long as is necessary for the work in progress,

‘That no tree clearing shall be permitted until approval of a Tree Saving Plan for each lot
cr block is approved by the Cily of Brockville.

‘That “Best Management Practices” respecting woodlands, and in particular, Butternut
trees as specified in the Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) by Ecological Services
be followed. Said practices to include, but not be limited to, continuing the process to
address remediation, avoidance measures and removal measures as they apply to
Butlernut trees identified under the EIS and as confirmed by various applications
‘submitted under the Endangered Species Act as managed by MNRF.

That the Owner shall be responsible for all costs involved with lands required to be
dedicated, conveyed or granted, including but not limited to, easement(s) over, or
under, to the City of Brockville andior the appropriate authority or authorities, and the
conveyances to the City of Brockville of Blocks 11 and 12 as 0.3 metre reserves.

‘That prior to Final approval of this Plan, the owner shall pay any and all outstanding
taxes levied against the Plan

‘That, i final approval of the Plan is not granted within three (3) years of the date of
approval of the Draft Plan, and no extensions have been granted, Draft Plan approval
shall lapse in accordance with Section 51(32) of the Planning Act, R.S.O. 1990, c.P.13.
Itis the sole responsiblity of the Owner to make such application for extension of Draft
Plan approval; and.

‘That the Final Plan, as approved by the City of Brockville, must be registered within
sixty (60) days of the date of final approval or the City's approval may be withdrawn in
‘accordance with Section 51/59) of the Planning Act, R.S.O. 1990, c.P.13.

CARRIED
2015-061-06

Canada 150 Community

Infrastructure Fund

Moved by: Councillor LeSueur

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Committee Minutes -
Tuesday, June 02, 2015

THAT the City of Brockville apply to the Canada 150 Community
Infrastructure Fund for up to $750,000 out of a total estimated project cost
of up to $2,500,000 for the rehabilitation of the Brockville Railway Tunnel
and north gorge for the purposes of opening the entire tunnel for public use.

CARRIED

CONSENT AGENDA

Nil.

The meeting recessed at 6:19 pm.

The meeting resumed at 6:39 pm.

MOTION TO MOVE INTO CLOSED SESSION

Moved by: Councillor Bursey
Seconded by: Councillor LeSueur

THAT pursuant to Municipal Act, 2001, Section 239, Sub. 2, (c), the Committee
resolve itself into Closed Session to consider:

1. a proposed or pending acquisition or disposition of land by the municipality
or local board;

CARRIED
REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE FROM CLOSED SESSION
Moved by: Councillor LeSueur
Seconded by: Councillor Kalivas
THAT the EDP Committee rise from Closed Session without reporting.
CARRIED

The regular meeting reconvened at 8:29 pm.

ADJOURNMENT

Page 5 of 8

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Committee Minutes -
Tuesday, June 02, 2015

Moved by: Councillor Kalivas
Seconded by: Councillor Bursey

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee adjourned its meeting
until the next regular meeting scheduled for July 7, 2015.

CARRIED

The meeting adjourned at 8:30 pm.

Page 6 of 6

