Page 1 of 5

Economic Development and
Planning Committee

Tuesday, December 1, 2015, 5:45 pm
City Hall, Council Chambers

Committee Members Areas of Responsibility
Councillor P. Dery, Economic Development Economic Development
Chair Planning Advisory Team.
Councillor L. Bursey Chamber of Commerce Museum Board
Councillor M. Kalivas DBIA brary Board
Councillor D. LeSueur Heritage Brockville Arts Centre
Mayor D. Henderson, Tourism
Ex-Officio

Page COMMITTEE AGENDA

Disclosure of Interest
Motion to Move into Closed Session

THAT pursuant to Municipal Act, 2001, Section 239, Sub. 3.1, the
Committee resolve itself into Closed Session to conside

1. the meeting is held for the purpose of educating or training the
members; and

2. at the meeting, no member discusses or otherwise deals with any
‘matter in a way that materially advances the business or decision-
‘making of the council, local board or committee.

Report of the Committee from Closed Session

THAT the EDP Committee rise from Closed Session without
reporting.

Delegations and Presentations

Thousand Islands Kennel and Obedience Club
(Mr. Jack Bernhardt)

Correspondence
Nil.

Page 2 of 5

Economic Development and Planning Committee
December 1, 2015

Staff Reports
Nil.

New Business - Reports from Members of Council
Nil.

Consent Agenda
Adjournment
THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee adjourned

its meeting until the next regular meeting scheduled for January 5,
2016.

Page 3 of S

Page 4 of 5

‘Thousand Islands Kennel and Obedience Club “ TIKO” Our 50 Years

‘The Club was formed in Brockville in the Spring of 1966 and has a long history of events in
Brockville and area since then.

First Training classes for owners and Dogs were held in the summer of 1966 on the parking
lot of the then Dominion Store, now the site of Car Wash.

First CKC Sanctioned Match was held on February, 1964 in the then “Moose Hi
Centre Avenue with current Mayor John Broome cutting the opening ribbon.

First Canadian Kennel Club sanetioned Championship Dog Shows were held in August
1969 in the New Youth Arena in Brockville.

‘Our next Championship Dog Shows was held in the Memorial Centre Arena in down town
Brockville at Rotary Park. With the demise of this facility, TIKO spent ten years holding
shows and also Trials for Obedience located outdoors in the Elizabethtown Park, North
Augusta Rd, Rows Corners.

With indoor and outdoor facilites available at the Brockville Memorial Centre, Magdoma
Drive in the City, TIKO relocated to this venue for the Dog Shows and Trials for over the
past twenty years.

Dog Training classes have been conducted in the Community Hall at the Memorial Centre
every Tuesday evening during Fall, Winter and Springs courses, usually with six classes
‘each evening, Average enrolement would be 60 dogs and owners per night. The classes are
for the community at large to train their dogs to be good citizens in our City of Brockville
‘and area which benefits many owners and the city.

Dog Training Classes cover Puppy ages, Adult Obedience, Show Training, and Canadis
Good Neighbour to help owners and dogs live in harmony Other classes are held in the
‘summer outdoors , weather permitting -

‘TIKO Club experienced Instructors volunteer their time to teach these Classes.
Dogs adopted from the OSPCA are accepted for their first course at half cost.

Our purpose here this evening is to inform the City of our activities, to promote our
visibility, and to share with the public at large the value TIKO brings to the community.

Sports Tourism has been conducted by the TIKO Dog Club for many years. We have
provided this service by a small group of TIKO member over this time frame. We would
like to continue to conduct shows and bring in visitors to our communi

Help TIKO celebrate our 0 year Anniversary in 2016,

‘Thank you.

Page 5 of

Annual Dog Shows

Friday August 19, Saturday 20, Sunday 21, 2016
Brockville Memorial Centre

Conformation outdoors under the big tent and

indoors at the Memorial Centre
Friday 9am-Spm, Saturday 9am-Spm, Sunday 9am-4pm

Rally & Obedience indoors at

the Memorial Centre
Friday, Saturday & Sunday 9:30am-3pm

FREE ADMISSION & PARKING

TIKO Breed Judging Schedule at www.dess.ca by Aug. 10th

