Page

Page 1 of 47

Economic Development and

Planning Committee
Tuesday, June 6, 2017, 4:15 pm
City Hall, Council Chambers

Committee Members
Councillor D. LeSueur,
Chair

Councillor 3. Baker
Councilor J. Earle
Councillor M. Kalivas
Mayor D. Henderson,
Ex-Officio

Areas of Responsibility
Economic Development
Planning

Chamber of Commerce
DBIA

Heritage Brockville

Disclosure of Interest

COMMITTEE AGENDA

Delegations and Presentations

Rails to Trails Festival

L. White will provide an update on the festival events being planned
for the grand opening of the Brockville Railway Tunnel in August.

Correspondence

Downtown Business Improvement Area

(M. Plooy, Executive Director)

THAT the correspondence from the Downtown Business
Improvement Area be received; and

THAT By-law 284-89 establishing the Board of Management for the
Downtown Business Improvement Area be amended to add an
appointment by Council for a Youth Representative position to the

board.

16 - 20

21-42

Page 2 of 47

Economic Development and Planning Committee
June 6, 2017

Reports from Boards and Committees

1

Brockville Public Library Board

‘Nancy Bowman, Chair will present the Brockville Public Library 2016
Annual Report.

Staff Reports

1

2.

2017-061-06
Proposed Amendment to Sign By-law 84-89
1960 Parkedale Avenue, Brockville

Owner: Choice Properties Reit

Agent: International Neon

THAT the application for Amendment to City of Brockville Sign By-
law 84-89 received from International Neon on behalf of Choice
Properties REIT be approved to permit a mural measuring 3.7m by
6.8 m for an area of 25.16 m2, depicting a historic scene from
Brockville’s past to be installed at the TD Bank Building at 1960
Parkedale Avenue, Brockville, be approved; and,

THAT the necessary amending bylaw be enacted.

2017-062-06
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014, Part Lot 15
Concession 2, Stewart Bivd., City of Brockville

Owner: Brockmoor Development Corporation Ltd.

Applicant: Novatech Engineering

THAT the application for Amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014
received from Mr. Adam Thompson, Novatech Engineering on behalf
of Brockmoor Development Corporation Ltd., to rezone vacant lands
described as Part of Lot 15, Concession 2, City of Brockville, County
of Leeds, from RU-Rural Zone to H1-C4-Highway Commercial Zone,
be approved; and

THAT the H1- Servicing Holding Zone be removed upon satisfying
the City’s requirements respecting the extension of municipal water
and sanitary sewer services and associated cost sharing; and,

THAT the necessary bylaw be enacted.

Page 3 of 47

Economic Development and Planning Committee
June 6, 2017

43-47 3, 2017-063-06
Removal of H1 Holding Symbol Lots 274 to 277, inclusive, and
Lots 307 to 314, inclusive, Bridlewood Subdivision, Plan 375,
Owner: 653973 Ontario Ltd.

THAT Council approve the removal of the H1-Holding Symbol from

lands described as Lots 274 to 277, inclusive, and Lots 307 to 314,
inclusive, Registered Plan 375, City of Brockville, County of Leeds.

New Business - Reports from Members of Council
Nil.

Consent Agenda
Adjournment

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee adjourned its
‘meeting until the next regular meeting scheduled for July 4, 2017.

Page 4 of 47

THE WORKS

Rails to Trails Festival
Update

May 31, 2017

Funding Partners

= Ontario 150 Fund
= Celebrate Ontario

= The Great Waterway

= Brockville & Area Community Foundation

Festival Partners

=  tnnno particular order;
Rallway Museum of Eastem Ontario, Marianne van SitMout Gallery, Pan-
Provincial Ontario 150 Tour, Volunteer Centre of St Lawrence Rideau,
Brockville Railway Tunnel

Festival Sponsors

= Inno particular order and ongoing:
CTV, Pattison Group, Investors Group, P&G, Superstore, CN Rall, DBIA,
King's Lock Craft Distllary, Shoreline Casino, Wills Transfer, Set the Barr, Cole
Solutions, Hometown TV 12, JR FM, Bob FM, The Fly, The Drive, St. Lawrence
College, McDougal DLK Insurance, Kawartha Credit Union, Super 8, Hyundai

ACTIVATIONS
Community Outreach

Canada 150 Projact Fair
= Catholic, Public and Independent Schools wil exhibit class projects

Cycling Advisory Committee & Brack Trails Group
"Both groups are working together to design a "Slow Ride” guided bike tour
= Information on the Brockville cycting routes and trails willbe on display
= Bike Parking

Page 5 of 47

THE WORKS

Brockville Museum
~ Historical photos ofthe waterfront site willbe on display and the newest exhibit
willbe opened to visitors

Ralway Museum of Eastern Ontario

—" As festival partners, the museum will have the Jigger and approx. 80-100M of
track laid out to nun along the waterfront

= Artifacts and historical imagery ofthe railway will be on display

=  Storyteling series wil be scheduled (told by storytellers that once worked on the
rails)

— Caboose will be treated as an “artafact’— being staged inside to reflect the
original period.

Vintage Carnival

~  Camivale Lune Bleue is on scheduled and coming with its 100-year old Ferries
Wheel and vintage carousel. The site will be staged with animators, six Cammy
games, the Clairvoyant Caravan and a “Tropical Terror" show, all offered at
family friendly pices.

‘Tunnel Opening Ceremony

— A Tunnel Opening Parade is scheduled to begin at Court House Square, Saturday,
‘August 12th at 10:30 AM and wil follow the route used in 1854 for the orginal
cornerstone-laying ceremony.

= The opening ceremony will take place at Armagh Price Park in front ofthe tunnel
Immediately folowing the parade. A Dixieland Band will be playing as the parade
participants arive, raising the excitement and expectations. The opening ceremonies
will have lots of pomp and pageantry but wil only be about 1/2 hour long. The tunnel
doors will be opened right after the ceremony so residents and visitors can proceed
up through the tunnel from end-to-end.

= Apost-ceremony VIP reception for invited quests and donors will also take place
immediately folowing the opening ceremonies, in a tent located on Ferry Street, just
behind the stage area,

Page 6 of 47

Ontario 150 Tour

= Programming Content Confirmed
= West Coast Lumberjack Show ~ 45-minute performances
= Rhythm of the Nation ~ 30-minute performances
= World's Largest Rubber Duck
Red Path Sugar activation includes handing out cookies and recipes
~ Hyundai activation ~ TBD

Logistics

+ Transportation
= Litle Obie" (CN Tour Train wil take visitors from Rails to Trails to RibFest
and back

~ Shuttle service will be provided from the Memorial Centre

= Golf carts wil also be available when needed

= Volunteers
‘As a festival partner, the Volunteer Centre of St. Lawrence Rideau is assisting with
Volunteer recruitment. Interested parties are asked to contact the Centre by phone or visit
the website to add their name tothe ls.

= Marketing

Campaign is ramping up mi-June and will run for 8 weeks leading up to the event

Mix includes website, social media and liking programs, digital and print advertising,
event listings, collateral material and distribution, public relations! interviews and promotion,

Financial Forecast

Criginal program and budget has been modified to reflect reduced sponsorship revenue.
Hoping for a break-even however, currently projecting a small deficit.

RECEIVED Pase 7 0147
MAY 30 2017
CLERK

‘Tuesday May 29%, 2017

City of Brockville
1 King Street West Box 5000,
Brockvile, ON KEV 7A5,

ear Mayor and Counc

‘The Downtown Business Improvement Area supports the growth and development of city
initiatives, in particular, the priority of atractng and retaining youth and young professionals
Within our community.

DBIA believes that partnerships with community stakeholders and organizations enables
continued growth in our community and ensures our efforts of inclusivity. The addition of
Youth representative on the DBIA Board wil facilitate the development of youth focused
projects downtown, not only appealing to youth, but engaging the community in new and
Innovative ways.

‘As part ofthe new DBIA strategic plan, engaging youth and leading youth focused initiatives is.
‘an important priority, Siting Municipal Act section 208

Composition
(2) A board of management shall be composed of,

(@) one or more directors appointed directly by the municipality,

The DBIAis asking Brockville City Council to appoint a Youth Representative postion tothe DBIA
Board to support this strategic initiative.

Yours truly,

Downtown Business Improvement Area

3 Market Street West, Suite #2, Brockville, Ontario K6V 7L2
Telephone: 613-345-3269 Fax: 613-345-4492 www.downtownbrockville.com


%. BROCKVILLE
” PUBLIC LIBRARY

2016 Annual Report

engage
evolve
experience


Letter from our Chair

Brockville Public Library contributes to our community through programs, services and resources
which are delivered within the Library, out in the community and online,

‘highlight this year hasbeen the rejuvenation ofthe childrens space on the main foot, Thanks to
the generous support from the Rotary Clubs of Brockville, matching funds from City Council and
several donation from local foundations, families and individuals, the space has been updated to
ensure accessibility and allow for flexible programming. Dubbed The Family Room i is busy place
filled with happy children, parents, caregivers and grandparents. Library staff has already noticed a
‘significant 50% increase in circulation from this are, due in part to the forward facing shelving and
the increased accessibility.

{In October 2016, we launched an annual giving campaign titled "My Giving Library”. In this st
year we have met our modest goal of $10,000. Fundraising has become necessary to ensure we
continue to provide quality programs and varied resources to meet our customer needs.

‘Our Library is open 7 days per week and welcomes community members of all ages and walk of ie.
‘There is truly something for everyone here

(ur Library staff are creative, enthusiastic and committed to ensuring each customer has a
rewarding experience. Staff can often be found out inthe community, connecting with agencies and
Partners, providing programs during community events and highlighting literacy and lifelong learning.
Thanks (the combined efforts of staf volunteers, Library Board, and Friends ofthe Library the
Brockville Public Library isa vibrant and integral contributor tothe City of Brockville and area
‘community.

memb
ir: Nancy Bowman Chiet Executive Officer: Linda Chadwick
Vice-Chair: Leah Wales Manager of Resources & Technology: Amanda Robinson
‘Treasurer: Jennifer Cullen Manager of Customer Experience: Laura Julien
Chris Hannah Coordinators: Margie Bentley Lisa Cirka,
(Chuck Quick Carol Yee & Brandy Smith
Rick Sands Library Assistants: Dawn Dupuis, Joyce Ferguson,
Cathy Tekamp Melanie Graham, Magsie Kim, Jackie Page, Jennifer
Margaret Wicklum Sechi & Leisa Prce-Storey

‘Student Pages: Lucas Arzoumanian, Busha Kadhra,
(Olivia Rosset, Victor Glasser & Jena Wren
Custodian: Mike Zuker

Page 9 of 47


Page 10 of 47

peas

‘Strategie Plan 20132018
‘whe short story.

Strategic Priorities at your Library:
|( Transform your library spaces

accessbilty, functionality, aestheties
+ Expand your access to services

business hours, fees, parking, kiosk, technology resources
Connect with our community

Customer service, marketing, outreach, partnerships, Cty relations
Enhance our service delivery

staffing levels, professional development, workflows, communication


Page 11 of 47

oo Quick Facts

241, Facebook & Twitter visits

137,934 People came through the Library door:

65,078 Visits to our website
234 Individuals received one-on-one technology training

$4,691,932. Worth of resources enjoyed by you

1,661

Uses of mmunity & 62 meeting room

953. Materials delivered to home

129,675

Additional items used in the Library & online

228 Hours of professional development by staff & trustees


2016 H ighlights

(

By WOO! AjlwWD) ou,


206 Children & Teen
Programming


Page 14 of 47

206 Adult Programs &
Volunteers


2016 Finances =

Accountability @ Your Library

gorse S275 sroonce
say
776, 3
et sonar / Fondling
Where the money goe
evouces
Fomaings
Pesos 32481 ss18s0
eFacty& utis 7348
sores
ssoas7
Weg 8 Bens
here 60.003
Online Addres
Friends ofthe Library Facebook& Titer:
wa bockailelibraryafiens tm wo facebook convBroclillePubleL brary
‘riends@brockilelibrary.ea wir. twittercon/BrockilePL

‘wor facebook comiriendsfthebrecuillelibrary

Page 15 of 47


Page 16 of 47

29May2017
REPORT TO THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE ~ 06 Juno
2017

2017-61-08
PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO D. DICK
SIGN BY-LAW 84-89 DIRECTOR OF PLANNING (ACTING)
891960 PARKEDALE AVENUE, BROCKVILLE J. FAURSCHOU
OWNER: CHOICE PROPERTIES REIT PLANNER |

AGENT: INTERNATIONAL NEON

RECOMMENDATION:

‘THAT the application for Amendment to City of Brockville Sign By-law 84-89 received from
Intemational Neon on behalf of Choice Properties REIT be amended to permit a mural
measuring 37 m by 68 m for an area of 25.16 m, depicting a historic scene from
Brockville's past to be installed at the TD Bank Building at 1960 Parkedale Avenue,
Brockville, be approved; and,

THAT the necessary amending bylaw be enacted.

PURPOSE:

‘The purpose of this report is to provide recommendation on an application to consider
‘amendment to Sign By-law 84-89 respecting the property with municipal address 1960
Parkedale Avenue, City of Brockvile.

‘The application requests that City of Brockville Sign By-law 84-89 be amended to permit a
new mural to be installed on the west wall of the TD Bank building located at 1960
Parkedale Avenue.

BACKGROUND:

‘An application for Amendment to City of Brockville Sign By-law 84-89 has been received
from David Danialis of Intemational Neon, agent for Choice Properties REIT, owners of the
subject property located at 1960 Parkedale Avenue, City of Brockvile.

‘Amuralis not permitted under Sign By-law 84-89. Accordingly, an Amendmentto Sign By-
law 84-89 has been requested to permit a mural measuring 3.7 mby 6.8m with an area of
25.16 m* to be installed on the west wall of the new TD Bank building located at 1960
Parkedale Avenue,

1960 Parkedale Avenue is zoned C6-1 ~ Power Centre Special Exception Zone and
designated as “Mixed Use and Commercial Area" within the "Mixed Use Node" under the
City of Brockville Official Plan and is located on the north-west corner of the intersection of
Parkedale Avenue and North Augusta Road,


2otr.o6t.06 page? 17 147
Proposed Amendment to Sign By aw 84-89

OuneR: choice Properties REIT

font Intoratont Neon

ANALYSIS:

Various sections of the Municipal Act provide municipalities with the authority to pass by-

laws to control signage and other advertising devices. Signs within the Corporation of the

City of Brockville are regulated under City of Brockville By-law 84-89, as amended, known

as the "Sign By-law’

‘The application requests that City of Brockville Sign By-law 84-89 be amended to grant a

site specific exemption to permit a mural measuring 3.7 m by 6.8 m with an area of 25.16

m*. The mural is proposed to be located on the west side of the new TD Bank building !
which is located on the north side of Parkedale Avenue. The muralis in addition to existing

signage on the site. Schedule “A” and Schedule “B” to this Report identify the proposed

mural location and details of the proposed mural, respectively.

By-law 84-89, as amended, addresses murals as follows:

.26 "Murals", means a graphic representation applied directly fo an exterior
building face or fo another surface and mounted on a building, regardless of media
or application technique, the primary purpose of which is decorative.”

"5.19 Murals :
'No person shail erect a mural except in accordance with Section 7.10 of this By-
Jaw, or otherwise by amendment fo this By-law.”

address provisions for mural dimensions, lighting or content, except for murals in the

8 nw 84.69, amanda tat rural2 of ht win te iy ner oes ,
.
downtown core area of the City.

‘Accordingly, the amendment requested is for permission to erect a mural at 1960
Parkedale Avenue. The proposed mural is to be constructed of a printed graphic on an
aluminum board and mounted approximately 0.05 m off the building face.

The mural is rationalized by the applicant as follows:

bank's Brockville location. The current Sign By-law does not allow for the
installation of murals. TD promotes culture and history of communities it serves by
displaying custom-made wall murals in its stores across Canada. To find the
archival treasures that become part of every location, TD Bank enlists the aid of
township libraries, historical societies and other organizations fo help choose a
Photograph for display.”

|
“TD Bank proposes installation of ahistorical mura depicting an eater ea ofthe |
|

‘The mural design and location as proposed has been circulated to various internal
Departments and the Ministry of Transportation, No objections were received. A Building
Perit is required for the installation of the sign, should Counell approve the proposed
amendment.


2017-06-06 Page $0" 18 of 47
Proposed Amendment to Sign By-law 84-69

OWNER: Choice Properties REIT

‘Agent: International Neon

POLICY IMPLICATIONS:

‘The proposed amendment, as noted, is consistent with policies within the City of Brockville
as the area is currently designated, zoned and developed for commercial uses
Accordingly, there are no adverse policy implications to permitting a mural at 1960
Parkedale Avenue depicting a historic scene from Brockville's past.

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS:

All costs associated with this application, application for a Building Permit and any further
requirements are the responsibilty of the Applicant.

CONCLUSION:
Itis recommended that the proposed amendment to City of Brockville Sign By-law 84-89
be approved. The amendment is to allow a mural depicting a historic scene from

Brockville's past. The mural measures 3.7 m by 6.8 m with an area of 25.16 m? and is to
be located on the west wall of the new TD Bank at 1960 Parkedale Avenue,

ax SE:
5 a
D. Dick, OPA, CA chou, MCIP, RPP

Director of Planning (Acting) Planner |

ae

Casselman
Manager


EXISTING
SIGNALIZED
INTERSECTION

90-490-2102 1OdgY OL «Ws TINGSHOS

PARKDALE AVENUE

SITE PLAN
a

fo ws J
=< |

al

90-190-L10z 1OdeY OL «fs TINGSHOS


Page 21 of 47

1 June 2017 )
REPORT TO THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE

(06 JUNE 2017

2017-62-06

PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO ZONING D.DICK

BY-LAW 050-2014, PART LOT 15, DIRECTOR OF PLANNING (Acting)
CONCESSION 2, STEWART BLVD., ANDREW MCGINNIS

CITY OF BROCKVILLE PLANNER I

OWNER: BROCKMOOR DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION LTD.
APPLICANT: NOVATECH ENGINEERING
FILE: D14-020,%0.2010)

RECOMMENDATION

THAT the application for Amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014 received from Mr.
‘Adam Thompson, Novatech Engineering on behalf of Brockmoor Development
Corporation Ld., to rezone vacant lands described as Part of Lot 15, Concession 2, City
of Brockville, County of Leeds, from RU-Rural Zone to H1-C4-Highway Commercial
Zone, with the H1- Servicing Holding Zone to be removed upon satisfying the City's
requirements respecting the extension of municipal water and sanitary sewer services
and associated cost sharing be approved; and,

THAT the necessary bylaw be enacted.

PURPOSE

The purpose of this report is to provide recommendation on an Application for
Amendment to Cy of Brockvile Zoning Bylaw 050-2014 respecting, vacant and |
located on the east side of Stewart Boulevard.

BACKGROUND

Novatech Engineering, represented by Ms. Danna See-Har and Mr. Adam Thompson, |
‘Agent for Brookmoor Development Corporation Limited, Owner of lands described as

Part of Lot 15, Concession 2, City of Brockville, County of Leeds, has filed an

application for amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014. The lands |
which are the subject of the application are located on the east side of Stewart Bivd., as

shown on Schedule “A” attached to this repor.

Brookmoor Development Corporation Limited intends to sell the vacant parcel located
north of 601 Stewart Blvd. (CFJR Radio Station), being approximately 1.86 hectares in
size with frontage on Stewart Blvd. of 143.5 m and an average depth of 163.4 m. The
application for an amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014 seeks to rezone this parcel

2017.062.06 Pag goe 22 of 47
Proposed Amendment to Zaning By-Law 050-2014

Part Lot 18, Cone. 2, ity OF Brockvile

‘Owner: Brockmsor Development Corporation Lid

[pplicant: Novatech Engineering

Fle: D14020q0

from RU — Rural Zone to C4 ~ Highway Commercial Zone to facilitate the construction
of an Automobile Service Station, accessory car wash and convenience store. The
remainder of the lands are proposed to be left vacant for future development of uses
permitted in the C4 — Highway Commercial Zone. Municipal water and sanitary sewer
services are to be extended prior to, or at the time of development and will be
addressed further as a clause in the Site Plan Control Agreement for development of
the subject land. A site plan of the proposed development is attached to this report as
‘Schedule “B” and Schedule “B-1”

ANALYSIS

Zoning and Official Plan Information:
Official Plan Designation: Corridor Commercial Area (no change requested) )

Existing Zoni RU ~ Rural Zone
Proposed Zoning: C4 ~ Highway Commercial Zone

Site Characteristics:
Total Area: 1.86 hectares

Frontage: 143.5 mon Stewart Blvd,

Average Depth: 163.4 m
‘The subject land is currently vacant with some areas of the site below the grade level of .
Stewart Blvd. Vegetative cover is mostly scrub brush with an irregular band of trees .
along a portion the eastem side (rear) of the lot.

Photos of the subject property are attached as Schedule “C””

‘Surrounding Land Use:

North: Lands to the north are zoned RU-7 - Rural Special Exception Zone and,
are occupied by Brockville Landscape Depot.
South: Lands located directly south are zoned RU — Rural Zone and occupied by

the CFJR Rado Staton, Further south and adjacent the radio stato, the |
lands are zoned C2 - Local Commercial Zone and occupied by’ the |
Butcher Shop.
East: Lands to the east are occupied by a residential neighbourhood comprised
of semi-detached dwellings and townhouse dwellings zoned R4 - General
Residential Zone (Wiimont Young Place) and low-rise apartment buildings
(4 storey) zoned R5 ~ Multiple Residential Zone (Cartier Court)

2017-082-06 paghgae 23 of 47
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-Law 050-2014

Par Lot 15, one. 2 city OF Brockvile

Ouner:Brockmoor Development Corporation Lt

picant: Novatech Engineering

Fler Dt4020qana%0

West: Lands to the west and across Stewart Boulevard are zoned H1-C4 —
Highway Commercial Zone and are presently vacant.

‘SouthWest: Lands to the south-west are zoned C4 ~ Highway Commercial Zone and
occupied by Home Hardware Building Centre,

Public Participation

The application for Zoning By-law Amendment has proceeded through the normal
review process. On 02 May 2017, a Public Meeting was held by the Economic
Development and Planning Committee. Notice of the Public Meeting was advertised in
the Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper on 06 April 2017 and was circulated to
Property owners within 120 metres of the subject property. In addition, a sign was
posted on the subject property advising that the land is the subject of Application for
‘Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014. Comments from City
Departments and affected agencies were also solicited. An excerpt from the Minutes of
the Public Meeting is attached as Schedule “D” to this report

‘Comments Received prior to the Public Meeting of 2 May 2017:

1. Steve Allen, Supervisor of Engineering, Environmental Services Department
‘+ Not opposed to the application,

2, Conal Cosgrove, Director of Operations, Operations Department:
+ Nocomments with respect tothe application

3. Brent Caskenette, CBO, Planning Department — Building Services Division:
+ Nocomments or concerns with this application or proposal

Greg Healy, Chief Fire Prevention Officer, Brockville Fire Department:
‘© No concerns at this time.

5. Scott Fraser, Chief, Brockville Police Service
‘+ Proximity to residential, Is the car wash going to be operational 24/7?
‘© Possible traffic issues.

6. Sandra MacDonald, City Clerk
‘© Noconcem

7. Michael Dakin, Resource Planner, Cataraqui Region Conservation Authority
+ No concem with the proposed zoning amendment.
© CRCA will conduct a full review at time of Site Plan Control Submission,

2017.062.06 paghgae 24 of 47
roposed Amendment to Zoning By-Law 050-2014

Part Lot 18, one. 2, ity OF Brockvile

‘Owner: Brockmoor Development Corporation Li

Epplicant: Novatech Engineering

ci D14-020¢u2n0

8. Allison Sadler, Municipal Planning Advisor, Enbridge Gas Distribution
‘+ No objection to the proposed application.

9. Peggy Deslauriers, Delivery Planning, Canada Post
= Nocomments on the re-zoning,

10. Pierre Tetrault, French Public School Board
+ No objection and no comments.

10. Karolyn Bois, French Catholic Schoo! Board
‘+ No objection and no comments,

11. Concerned Neighbours (Letter attached as Schedule “E” to this report)
'* Object to zoning change:
‘© Existing water course
© Fuel Storage
‘Risk outweighs the commercial benefit
© Business Risk, area will become over served by this type of use.
© BarrierfEsthetics
'* Lighting will be easily seen and disturbing to residents
© Should approval be granted, comments need to be included in the
Site Pian Control Agreement,
© Strong consideration on the Business Risk/Need, high potential for
failure.

ANALYSIS:

Previa Pole Consideaons 5 }

‘An updated Provincial Policy Statement (PPS) issued under Section 3 of the Planning
‘Act came into effect April 30, 2014. The PPS provides policy direction on matters of
Provincial interest related to land use planning and development. Section 3 of the
Planning Act further directs that Council decisions affecting planning matters “shall be
consistent with” the Provincial Policy Statement.

Part V of the PPS sets out various policies which describe the areas of Provincial
interest. Not all policies in the PPS are relevant to the planning matter under
‘consideration, and thus, only those relevant portions will be referenced below.

‘The application proposes to amend City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 to permit
a range of commercial uses, as delineated under the C4-Highway Commercial Zone,
‘on the subject land.


2017-062.06 pagh90® 25 01 47

‘Amendment to Zoning By-Law 080-2014
Pant Lot 15, Cone. city Of Brockvile
umer:Brockmsor Development Corporation Li
epicant: Novatech Engineering

Fhe Bik Bane

From a review of the PPS, there are some relevant statements/policies under Part V,
Section 1 “Building Strong Communities". The preamble in this section is a general
statement which reads, in part, as follows:

“Ontario's long-term prosperity, environmental health and social well-being

depend on wisely managing change and promoting efficient land use and

development pattems. Efficient land use and development pattoms support )
strong, livable and healthy communities, protect the environment and public

health and safety, and facilitate economic growth.”

‘This general statement is followed by more specific policies, including the following
references which are of relevance to this application for zoning by-law amendment:

tA.

‘Healthy, liveable and safe communities are sustained by:

4) promoting efficient development and land use patterns which sustain
the financial well-being of the Province and municipalities over the long
term;

‘b) accommodating an appropriate range and mix of residential (including
second units, affordable housing and housing for older persons),
‘employment (including industrial and commercial), institutional .
(including places of worship, cemeteries and long-term care homes), .
recreation, park and open space, and other uses to meet long-term .
needs;

© evakg deopmen an a use patos hat woud prvet te }
efficient expansion of settlement areas in those areas which are |
adjacent or close to settlement areas;

d) promoting cost-effective development pattems and standards to
‘minimize land consumption and servicing costs;" :

Section 1.1.3-Settlement Areas, contains various policies which promote the vitality of
settlement areas and the long term prosperity of communities though efficient use of
land and resources.

|
“Section 1.3-Employment, Sub-Section 1.3.1, states that Planning Authorities
‘shall promote economic development and competitiveness by: |
‘a) providing for an appropriate mix and range of employment (including
ttl nanoeeh td etione say creat eran |
b) providing opportunities for a diversified economic base, including |
Imaintaning'@ range and choice of sulle sites for employment uses |
which support @ wide range of economic ectiies and anciary uses,
and take ito account the needs of existing and futuro business0s;
¢) planning for, protecting and preserving employment areas for current
tnd futuro uses; and


2017-062-06
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-Law 00-2014
Pare Lat 15, Cone. 2, City OF rockvile.

‘Owner: ”‘Brockmoor Development Corporation Lid,
‘Appllcant: Novatech Engineering

File: DieG20es

4) ensuring the necessary infrastructure is provided to support current and
projected needs."

Section 1.6-Infrastrucure and Public Service Facilities addresses the efficient planning
and use of existing and future infrastructure, including municipal servicing, to ensure
logical and planned development.

This proposed development, requiring an amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-
law 050-2014, would represent a logical extension of existing municipal infrastructure on
an existing road system within an area designated for commercial land use. It is,
therefore, consistent with policies under the PPS 2014.

Official Plan Considerations

The Official Plan, approved the Ministry of Municipal Affairs on 09 February 2012,
provides guidance on how to manage future growth, development, and change within
the City of Brockville

‘The goal of the Official Plan is to create a sustainable City in terms of health and vitality,
that is economically viable and diverse, has high quality municipal services and
amenities, and is well planned.

Section 2.3 outlines strategic planning themes which include “A Sustainable, Healthy,
and Vital City’, “An Economically Strong and Diverse City’, “A High Quality of City
Services and Amenities’, and “A Well-Planned Responsive City’. Specifically, “An
Economically Strong and Diverse City’ outlines among others, that the City is to “Direct
‘employment and commercial growth to appropriate locations which provide sufficient
existing and planned infrastructure” and “Maintain a strong and diverse commercial and
‘employment base by supporting the retention and expansion of existing employment
and commercial uses.”

‘The subject land is designated under Schedule 1-City Structure, of the Official Plan, as
“Commercial Corridor Area”.

Section 4.8 of the Off
‘Commercial Area’.

Plan contains various policies applicable to the "Corridor

Policy 4.6.2 identifies various uses and classes of uses as follows:

"4.6.2 PERMITTED USES

‘Subject to the Land Use and Built Form policies of Section 4.6.3, the following
uses shail assist in guiding the broad range of development permitted within the
Corridor Commercial Area, recognizing that a more definitive list shall be
provided in the Zoning By-law.

pagh@oe 26 08 47

2017.082-06
Proposed Amandmont to Zoning By-Law 050-2014
Part Lot 18, Cone. 2, city Of Brockville.

‘Owner: ‘Brockmoor Development Corporation Lid
‘pplcant: Novatech Engineering

Flee D14-020pua

pagh#0® 27 of 47

Commercial Uses within the Corridor Commercial Area

3. The primary commercial uses shall include commercial establishments that
are destination oriented or are intended to serve the travelling public,
including automobile service stations, vehicle sales and service, public
garages, repair, service and rental establishments, motels, hotels,
restaurants, animal hospitals, clinics, business and professional offices, retail
stores, mixed-use buildings, commercial recreation uses, private clubs,
hardware, and automotive uses.

4. Uses accessory to any of the permitted uses in the Corridor Commercial
Area shall be permitted.

5. Large Format Retail uses shall not be permitted in the Corridor Commercial
Area.”

‘The uses permitted under the proposed C4-Highway Commercial Zone are consistent
with those uses identified under Section 4.6.2-Permitted Uses. In particular, the
applicant has noted the primary intended use for the land, subject to receiving various :
approvals, is an “Automobile Service Station” with associated "C-store” and "Car Wash"
which are permitted uses under Section 4.6.2. The proposed uses are therefore .
consistent with the current Official Plan designation of the subject land. The buit form :
Policies contained in Section 4.6.3 shall be required to be complied with upon |
.

submission of the required Site Plan Control application for the subject land. The
Applicant has not requested any amendments concerning built form policies.

‘With reference to Policy 6.4.2.1 — Holding Zones:

+ The extension of municipal water and sanitary sewer services along Stewart |
Blvd, to service the subject property, is anticipated and will be required before |
development of the subject site. The City has an existing agreement with the
existing Owner of the lands. Engineering design is nearing completion. The |
‘Owner of the property which is the subject ofthis Report will be responsible for a |
proportionate share of costs corresponding to the frontage ofthe subject lot, and |
also for connection of future bullding(s) to the municipal services.

In this regard, Official Plan Policy 6.4.2.1 Holding Zones identifies the potential
for the use of holding zones through the City’s Zoning By-law to ensure that
certain conditions are met before development occurs, such as the timing of the
provision of adequate municipal services. The use of a holding zone allows the
City to indicate support for the development of the lands in-principle while |
identifying the need for additional actions prior to development occurring, |

2017-062.06 Pagh 89° 28 of 47

Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-Law 050.2014
Par Lt 18, Cone. 2, cil Of Brockville

‘Oumner. Brockmcor Development Corporation Lid.
‘Applicant: Novatech Engineering

Fler DIa-020 90)

Additional commentary on the use of a Holding Zone in this particular instance
appears under Zoning By-law Considerations section of this report

‘+ The Director of Operations has advised that a Traffic Study is not required.

In conclusion, the proposed development is consistent with policies under the Official
Pian for the City of Brockville. Details such as the extension of servicing have been
provided to the Applicant and the City and shall be resolved at the time of review for site
development. Accordingly, no amendment to the Official Plan for the City of Brockville
is required.

Zoning By-law Considerations;

‘The current zoning on the subject property is RU ~ Rural Zone under City of Brockville
Zoning By-law 050-2014. The requested Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-
law 050-2014 would, if approved, rezone the subject lands to C4-Highway Commercial
Zone to permit all uses permitted within the C4-Highway Commercial Zone,

‘The applicant has not requested any reductions or changes to the zone provisions or
uses for the C4-Highway Commercial Zone as set out under City of Brockville Zoning
By-law 050-2014.

Based on a review of Zoning By-law 050-2014, the above noted request and additional
discussion during the Public Meeting held on 02 May 2017, the proposed C4-Highway

‘Commercial Zone would accommodate the primary proposed use, being an “Automobile

Service Station’ and accessory “C-Store” and “Car Wash’. Rezoning the subject lands

to C4-Highway Commercial Zone is consistent with the "Commercial Corridor Area” land .
use designation under the Official Plan for the City of Brockville, and is a logical

extension of the C4-Highway Commercial Zone in place on developed lands to the north

and south fronting on Stewart Boulevard

Zoning By-law 050-2014 also establishes provisions for the use of Holding Zones,
implementing the guidelines for such in the Official Plan. Any zone may be further .
classified by one or more holding zones, indicating the action to be accomplished before

the land can be used or developed. Implementing an H1-Servicing Holding Zone in this
‘case would be appropriate, as this clearly provides notice that municipal servicing must
be in place, or an associated agreement respecting the provision of, or cost sharing for,
such servicing, pethaps through the terms and conditions associated with Site Plan
‘Approval. Once such site servicing matters have been finalized, an application can be
made to City Council for removal of the H1-Holding Zone, and development of the site :
for a use permitted, inthis instance, in the C4-Highway Commercial Zone, can proceed.


seranase pa}00 29047

Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-Law 050-2014
Part Lot 15, one. 2 city Of Brockvile

Owner: Brockmoor Development Corporation Lis
Splicant: Novatech Engineering

Fle Dis 020pnsne

Site Plan Considerations:

All lands within the limits of the City for Brockville are subject to development approval
Under Site Plan as established by City of Brockville By-law 33-86, as amended,
Accordingly, prior to development of the subject lands, an application for Site Plan
‘Approval, including all applicable drawings must be submitted for review and approval.
This process ensures development in compliance with applicable zone provisions. The
zone provisions include, but are not limited to, regulations pertaining to height, parking,
planting strip requirements, fencing, etc. In addition, the applicant has submitted a
lighting study completed by Gama Engineering which states that the lighting design wll
not create any objectionable glare for adjacent properties. A copy of the lighting map
has been attached as Schedule “F” to this report.

Severance Considerations:
‘The applicant has indicated that although they are not utilizing the entire land holding for
the “Automobile Service Station’ they are not anticipating any severances at this time.
Any development ofthe residual lands will be subject to review and all relevant planning
approvals.

Consideration of Issues Raised through Public and Agency Submissions:

‘The following addresses issues which were raised in correspondence and at the Public
Meeting held on 02 May 2017:

1. Payment of Fees: Development Charges / Road Widening / Extension of
Municipal Servicing:

‘The Applican/Developer shall be responsible for a proportionate share of the
‘extension of municipal servicing for the full frontage of the land and for applicable
development charges. Development Charges are set out under City of Brockville
By-law 062-2014 and is based on the gross floor area of the development,
‘subject to a cap of 1% of construction value.

2. Municipal Servicing:

‘The lands proposed to be rezoned shall be serviced with municipal water and
‘sewer upon the northward extension of existing municipal servicing. The Owner
and/or the developer shall be responsible for their proportionate share of sald
work,

Its anticipated that the retained lands will be serviced with municipal services in
the future through the extension of existing services northwards on Stewart


2017.082.06

Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-Law 050-2014
Part Lot 15, Cone. 2 city OF Brockville

Owner:

Applicant: Novatech Engine

Phe:

‘Brockinoor Development Corporation Lid.

DIEOZO pea

Boulevard. It is anticipated that construction of the required municipal services
will begin this summer.

Traffic:

‘The Operations Department has stated that there is no need for a Traffic Study
for the use proposed on the subject lands, Any additional uses planned for the
residual lands will need to be examined at the time of submission for
development. Should a Traffic Study be required, all costs associated with the
study will be the responsibilty of the developer.

Neighbourhood Concerns:
a) Existing Water Course:

‘According to neighbours there is an existing watercourse on the property that
deals with drainage from sites further north. Consultation with the Cataraqui
Region Conservation Authority (CRCA) as well as our own Environmental
Services Division shows no concern with the existing watercourse. A grading
‘and drainage plan is required to be prepared and submitted for the site
during the Site Plan Control review process should Council approve the
rezoning request.

b) Fuel Storage:

Neighbours have raised concer pertaining to the storage and handling of
fuel at “Automobile Service Stations”

In response to the above, the applicant has supplied the following comment:

“All gas stations are subject to the provincial regulations in the Technical
Safety and Standards Act. Among the most significant are:

})_All/new underground storage tanks must be double-walled and the
space between the walls (the interstitial space) must be
continuously, electronically monitored.

ji) All underground storage tanks must be equipped with an overfil
protection device and a spill containment device at the filing point.

ii) All new underground piping must be double-walled and any
{termination point must be continuously electronically, monitored.

iv) All tanks and piping are pressure tested at installation

YA installing personnel are provincially certified.”

page 900 90 0f 47

2017.062.06 Page 849° 1 of 47
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-Law 050-2014

Pan Lot 18, one. 2, Clty OF Brockvile

Gummer Brockmser Development Corporation Lid

Apptcant: Novatech Engi

Fhe Die20qna00

mg

In addition to the above, the applicant has also supplied information stating
that “Ail gas stations feature vapor recovery systems to capture gasoline
vapors displaced during vehicle refueling and routes them back to the
underground storage.”

©) Barriers/Esthetics/Lighting

Bartiers/Esthetics/Lighting are addressed in the City of Brockvile Zoning By-
law 050-2014. Adequate fencing, planting strips and properly directed lighting

are all required to be submitted for review through the Site Plan Control

process. AS stated previously, the applicant has prepared a photo-metric .
lighting analysis to show the lighting placement and light spill around the ste.

‘A copy ofthis analysis is attached as Schedule “F"to this report.

4) Carwash/Hours of Operation:

Issue was raised at the Public Meeting relating to the hours of operation of
both the Service Station and the Carwash. Mr. Adam Thompson, Novatech
Engineering, agent for the applicant, stated at the Public Meeting that the
“gas station wil be open 24/7 but the carwash may operate on reduced
hours".

POLICY IMPLICATIONS .

AA review of the Provincial Policy Statement and relevant policies within the Official Plan
has been conducted and is provided within the “Analysis” section ofthis report.

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS.

‘A complete application for amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 has
been received, including all applicable fees.

Future approvals associated with the development of the subject property, including, but
not limited to, Site Plan Approval, issuance of building permits, and payment of all
requisite fees, are the responsibilty of the Owner and/or Applicant.

‘CONCLUSION
Following review of the PPS, the Offical Plan and Zoning By-law 050-2014 as well as

submissions received respecting the request for zoning amendment for vacant lands
described as Part of Lot 15, Concession 2, City of Brockville, County of Leeds, it is.

2017-062-06 page ga® 22 of 47
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-Law 050.2016
Part Lot 18, one. 2, city Of Brockvile.

Owner: Brockmoor Development Corporation Lid

Applicant: Novatach Engineering

Fe D14820paco

concluded the proposal does follow the general intent of the PPS and Official Plan as
they pertain to permitted uses within the Corridor Commercial Area. Accordingly, its
the recommendation of this report to support the requested amendment to City of
Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 whereby the subject land would be rezoned from
RU-Rural Zone to C4-Highway Commercial Zone. Its also recommended that a Hi
Servicing Holding Zone be applied to the site to ensure that municipal services are
available prior to development. This recommendation is reflected atthe beginning of this

report.
D. Dick, CPA, CA ‘McGinnis, MCIP, RPP, Dipl.M.M,
Director of Pianning (Acting) and Planner Il

Director of Corporate Services

City Manager


Page 33 of 47

SCHEDULE “A” TO REPORT 2017-062-06


PART)
PLAN 28 R 12476



Page 26 of 47

SCHEDULE “C” TO REPORT 2017-062-06


Page 37 of 47

SCHEDULE “D” TO REPORT 2017-062-06

faq Public Meeting
BROCKVILLE Economic Development &
SOTERA Planning Committee
COMMITTEE Tuesday, May 02, 2017, 6:00 pm

MINUTES City Hall, Council Chambers

Committee Members:
Councillor D. LeSueur, Chair

Councillor 3. Baker

Councillor M. Kalivas

Councillor Mayor D. Henderson, Ex-Officio

Absent:
Councillor J. Earle

Staff:
B. Casselman, City Manager

D. Dick, Director of Corporate Services

J, Faurschou, Planner I

S. MacDonald, City Clerk

‘A. McGinnis, Planner If

L. Murray, Deputy City Clerk (Recording Secretary)
P. Raabe, Director of Environmental Services

L. White, Manager of Strategic Initiatives,

The Chair called the meeting to order at 6:00 pm
ITEM.

1. 2017-048-05
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014,
Part Lot 15, Concession 2, Stewart Bivd., Brockville,
‘Owner: Brockmoor Development Corp. Ltd.

Moved by: Councillor Baker
THAT Report 2017-048-05 be received as information and that a report on

this matter be prepared by Staff for consideration of the Econor
Development Planning Committee at a future meeting:

CARRIED

Page 1 of 17

Page 28 of 47

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, May 02, 2017

Page 2 of 17

Councillor LeSueur, Chair, introduced the Public Meeting and read from the
prepared required comments.

‘A. McGinnis announced that Notice of the Public Meeting was advertised in
the Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper on April 6, 2017 and was
Circulated to property Owners within 120.0 metres (400.0 feet) of the
subject property and various Agencies and Departments. In addition, signs
were posted on the subject property advising that the lands are the subject
of an Application for Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-
2014.

Councillor LeSueur, Chair, asked that any person wanting further Notice of,
the passage of the proposed amendment should give their full name,
address, e-mail and postal code to the Secretary prior to leaving the
meeting. Councillor LeSueur identified that "Request for Information Sheets”
were located at the back of the room.

Councillor LeSueur reviewed the procedures for the Public Meeting.
‘A. McGinnis provided an overview of the proposed zoning amendment.

Councillor LeSueur asked if they plan to operate 24 hours a day, 7 days a
week. Adam Thompson who is the Agent for the Owner replied that the gas
station will be open all the time but the car wash may operate on reduced
hours.

Marilyn Salmon of 28 Wilmot Young Place disagreed with this type of
operation moving into her back yard. She asked how far the buildings will be
from her back yard. She felt that it would be noisy and the lights would
invade her privacy. Leo Palozzi who is the developer for the lands (Sunray
Group) indicated that there are no plans for the balance of the lands and
estimated the buildings would be about 30 metres from the lot lines of the
‘Wilmot Young Place homes. He added that they would have no problem
doing a photometric study to analyze light spillage. He also suggested that
the lighting would be oriented so that it faces downward to contain it to the
site and be in keeping with dark sky provisions.

Pat Donovan of 26 Wilmot Young Place is not in favour of the car wash as
she thinks it will produce stagnant pools of water and breeding grounds for
‘mosquitos.

Page 39 of 47

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, May 02, 2017

Leo Palozzi replied that the carwash uses municipal water and that the
excess/used will be filtered and directed into the municipal sanitary sewer
sytem. He added that they import their regulations from the conservation
authorities. Leo Palozzi indicated that the conservation authority supports
this application and they have no concerns.

Justine Lawson of 24 Wilmot Young Place is against this use and feels that
the trucks when offloading fuel will produce fumes that will blow into their
yards and spillage that will contaminate the groundwater.

Leo Palozzi explained that when the fuel is delivered the offloading process is
vacuum sealed so there is no spillage or vapour leakage.

‘The meeting adjourned at 6:32 pm.
The Request for Information Sheets are on file in the Clerk’s Office.
‘The Chair called the meeting to order at 6:33 pm.

Proposed Amendments to the Official Plan
Zoning By-law 050-2014, Part of Block 54,

THAT Report 2017-049-05 be rg
this matter be prepared by sie

Page 3 of 17

Page 40 of 47

SCHEDULE “E” TO REPORT 2017-062-06

Planning Department
Cty of Brockville

1 King St. West
Brockville ON

Kev 7As

Hand Delivered

Regarding Proposed Amendment to By1aw 050-2018

We are owners of adjacent oper EEE comments below ean
be considered as our objection to the change in zoning beleg proposed to accommodate an aut service
sation, carwash end convenience store. We have several concerns noted here:

ENVIRONMENTAL
‘hiss the most important of our concerns. The land being rezoned is, as we understand i, relaimed
en, TT there isa water run off
leading to the property under zoning change consideration. We want to make cetaln there sno barrier
to this water runoff. Heavy rains and winter snow melt follow a pattern that has been in place we
believe since the mid 1990's when the homes were built.

Sleyond that, we are concernad there will be automobile ful stored underground on the ste, We
Understand there are regulation regarding underground storage of such hazardous mates
Regardless, any sil, eaks or fires would be very dangerous

Remediation of any such event Is known to be incredible costly and time consuming. Therefore, we
believe the risk outweighs any commercial benefit.

BUSINESS RISK
‘The proposal Indicates auto service, car wash and convenience store. We are concerned the area wil
‘become overserved by this typeof business inthis locaton, There ls auto service and convenience store
1 block sway atthe corner of Stewart Bid and Laurer Ave. Theres fuel sales 1 block north at Stewart
‘Blvd and Victoria Road. There areno less than 3 service stations with car wash facies at Stewart Blvd
and Parkedale Ave corners adjacent to highway 401. It appears tous the area is quite well served by
existing facts in much more prominent locations. The concern here I the white elephant property
‘that wil be lett should this enterprise fl, Resale ofthese types of properties Is extremely dificult. One
‘only need look at the same Stewart/Pardlale corner and vacant former gas bar location as evidence.
‘That goes beyond the Environmental issue noted above as business fallure will erate protective
‘demands on the underground assets that may be dificult to secure.

‘BARRIER/ESTHETICS
“The property In question appears to be of sufficent se to provide appropriate visblity barirs from
traffic and lighting. We anticipate this operation could be open 24/7. Whlle there may be peaks of
‘actvty, there wil always be highy placed lighting that could be exsily seen from and bright enough
ring darkness hours to be disturbing.

Page 41 of 47

CONCLUSION
While we stand by our objection tothe change on what we are submitting here, we do wish to add a
final pol. Should ths change go ahead and tis business be established, wo very strongly blleve the
Cy of Brockville needs to Include our conceens in any Site Plan Agreement with the owners. Careful
adherence to all hazardous materials we believe ls a mandatory requirement aiready automatic
Creating 2 Baler of significant proportion to pratect neighbours from view, noise, lighting sez an
Important separatlon nocessary between a highly visible commercial enterprise anda quet cesidential
neighbourhood. We also believe the review process carefully consider the Business Ask/Need here.
‘Adding another tothe alresdy extensive list slong the Stewart Bid appears to us tobe an unnecessary
‘addition with high potential for failure


42 of 47

'O REPORT 2017-062-06


Page 43 of 47

4 June 2017
REPORT TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING COMMITTEE

(06 JUNE 2017

2017-063-06

REMOVAL OF H1 HOLDING SYMBOL D. DICK
LOTS 274 TO 277, INCLUSIVE, AND DIRECTOR OF PLANNING (Acting)
LOTS 307 TO 314, INCLUSIVE, ANDREWMCGINNIS
BRIDLEWOOD SUBDIVISION, PLAN 375 PLANNER II

OWNER: 653973 ONTARIO LTD.
FILE: 267-10

RECOMMENDATION:

1, THAT Council approve the removal of the H1-Holding Symbol from lands described
as Lots 274 to 277, inclusive, and Lots 307 to 314, inclusive, Registered Plan 375,
City of Brockville, County of Leeds,

PURPOSE:

‘The purpose of this report is to provide recommendation on removal of the H1-Holding
‘Symbol on various lands within Plan 375, Bridlewood Subdivision, as it relates to the next,
phase of development within the Bridlewood Subdivision,

BACKGROUND: .

On 15 December 1981, Council for the Corporation of the City of Brockville entered into a
Subdivision Agreement for development of Bridlewood Subdivision, being identified as :
Registered Plan 375. Subsequent Amendments to the Agreement have been granted to

address various changes as the subdivision has developed. The subdivision has
proceeded in logical growth phases.

The subject lands are those lands located on the west portion of Aspen Drive north to
McClure Crescent and west along the north side of McClure Crescent and are wholly within .
the limits of the previously approved Bridlewood Subdivision identified as Plan 375. The

subject lands are currently vacant. Schedule “A” to this report identifies the overall Plan of
Subdivision, being Plan 375. Schedule “B” to this report identifies the lands which are the

subject ofthis report.

The Owners of the subject lands have indicated that they are ready to proceed with
development of residential units within a new phase of Bridlewood Subdivision. In order to
do this, the Owners have requested consideration for removal of the H1-Holding Symbol
from the serviced portion of the subject lands. Accordingly, the following analysis
addresses the request identified above.


Page 44 of 47

2017-063-06 Page 2
Removal of 1 Holding Symbol

Bridlewood Subdivision, Lots 274 to 277 and 307 to 314, Plan 375

‘Owner: 653973 Ontario Ltd,

File: 26710

ANALYSIS:
Removal of the H1 Holding Symbol:

Removal of the H1 Holding Symbol for lands described as Lots 274 to 277, inclusive,
and Lots 307 to 314, inclusive, Registered Plan 375, City of Brockville, County of Leeds,
‘would permit development of the next phase of development of Bridlewood Subdivision,

The subject lands are currently zoned as H1-R2 Single Unit Residential Zone and H1-R3-
General Residential Zone.

‘The “H1” Holding Symbol in place before the R2 Single Unit Residential Zone Symbol and
the R3-General Residential Zone Symbol represents a Servicing Holding Zone. Council
‘may remove the holding symbol, once servicing is available, or once Council is satisfied
that an appropriate servicing agreement is in place. The servicing plans and design
drawings have been reviewed and approved by the Environmental Services Department,
Engineering Division. In this case, with both a Subdivision Agreement in place, and with
confirmation from the Environmental Services Department that the potable water, storm
sewer and sanitary sewer designs are acceptable, itis appropriate to remove the H1-
Holding Symbol so that construction of the servicing and roadway can commence.

‘The Environmental Services Department has confirmed that the lots lie within the original
Plan 375 for which Certificate of Approval for Municipal and Private Sewage Works issued
by the Ministry of the Environment has been approved and is therefore not an issue.

In addition, the proposed Municipal Water Servicing was approved by a "Form #1 — Record
of Watermains” by the Ministry of the Environment in 2011.

POLICY IMPLICATIONS:

‘The proposed removal of the H1-Holding Symbol as noted is consistent with policies
within the City of Brockville as the area is currently designated and zoned for residential
development.

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS:

All costs for actions addressed under this report are the responsibilty of the Developer.


Page 45 of 47

2017-063-06 Page 3
Removal of Ht Holding Symbol

Bridlewood Subdivision, Lots 274 to 277 and 307 to 314, Plan 375

‘Owner: 653973 Ontario Lid,

File: 267-10

CONCLUSIONS:

‘The Planning Department supports the proposed removal of the H1-Holding Symbol for
lands described as Lots 274 to 277, inclusive, and Lots 307 to 314, inclusive, Registered
Plan 375, City of Brockville, County of Leeds, to permit development of the next phase of

Bridlewood Subdivision,

D. Dick, GPA, CA KWeGinnis, MCIP, RPP, DiplNiM
Director of Pianning (Acting) and Planner I
Director of Corporate Services

B. Cai
City Manager

Page 46 of 47


=

f


