Economic Development &
Planning Committee
Tuesday, April 07, 2015
COMMITTEE MINUTES City Hall, Council Chambers

[2]
BROCKVILLE

E

Members Present:
Councillor J. Baker, Chair
Councilor L. Bursey

Councilor M. Kalivas
Councilor D. LeSueur
Mayor D. Henderson, Ex-Officio

Other Councillors:
Councilor T. Blanchard
Councilor P. Dery

Staff:
Mr. J. Faurschou, Planner |

Ms. S. MacDonald, City Clerk

Mr. A. McGinnis, Planner I

Ms. L. Murray, Deputy City Clerk (Recording Secretary)
Ms. M. Pascoe-Merkley, Director of Planning

‘The Chair called the meeting to order at 6:43 pm.
DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST
Nil

MOTION TO MOVE INTO CLOSED SESSION (5:00 pm)

Moved by: Councillor Bursey

‘THAT pursuant to Municipal Act, 2001, Section 239, Sub. 2, (c), the Committee resolve
itself into Closed Session to consider:

1. a proposed or pending acquisition or disposition of land by the municipality or local
board:

CARRIED

Page 1 of 8

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Committee Minutes -
Tuesday, April 07, 2015

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE FROM CLOSED SESSION

Moved by: Councillor Kalivas

THAT the EDP Committee rise from Closed Session and that all motions in the closed session
be adopted.

CARRIED
DELEGATIONS AND PRESENTATIONS

Ni
(CORRESPONDENCE
Ni

STAFF REPORTS

1. 2015-027-04
Proposed Plan of Subdivision and Proposed Amendment to City of Brockville
Zoning By-Law 050-2014 Part of Lots 15, 19 and 22, Plan 206,

Centre Street-Phase lI, City of Broclwille
‘Owner: Brockville Centre Development Corporation
‘Agent: PMP 7904274 Canada Inc. ~ Ms. Jane Almond

Moved by: Councillor LeSueur

1. THAT Zoning By-law 050-2014 be amended to rezone lands described as Part Lot
22, Plan 206, being Part 2, Reference Plan 28R-12501.. City of Brockville, County of
Leeds, being shown as Block 9 on the Draft Plan of Subdivision, to R3-8 General
Residential Special Exception Zone to add “street townhouse dwelling” as a
permitted use in addition to al other uses permitted within the R3-2-General
Residential, Special Exception, Zone:

2. THAT approval be granted to the Draft Plan of Subdivision on lands described as
Part of Lots 15, 19 and 22, Plan 206, being Parts 2 and 5, Reference Plan 28R:
12501, City of Brockwille, County of Leeds, subject to the following conditions:

|) That these conditions shall apply to the Draft Plan prepared by Robert J.
Jordan, O.LS., dated 04 December 2013, showing Blocks 1 through 9,
inclusive, said Blocks being delineated as to use on the afore-mentioned Draft
Plan;

Page2 of 8

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Committee Minutes -
Tuesday, April 07, 2015

Page 3 of 8

‘iy

i)

‘That such easements as may be required for services, drainage purposes
and the like shall be granted gratuitously to the City and to the appropriate
‘authority or authorities:

‘That prior to final approval of the Plan, the Owner shall enter into a
Subdivision Agreement with the City of Brockville which shall specify, among
‘ther things:

(a) Allof the requirements, financial and otherwise, of the City of Brockville
‘concerning the provision of roads, street lighting, easements and the
installation of services, drainage facilties, and cash-in-ieu of parkland
dedication, among other things:

(©) The requirement of the Brockville Fire Department for an acceptable
number of hydrant locations and capacity and location to ensure
‘emergency services access and fire fighting capabilities;

(c) The requirements of Canada Post with respect to the location,
installation of Community Mailbox(s) and associated easement(s) and
consideration of various conditions to be contained in the Subdivision
‘Agreement as set out by Canada Post. In addition, all such work must
comply with current Canada Post requirements as provided by Canada
Post at the time of start of construction;

(@) The requirements of Enbridge Gas Distribution Inc., with respect to the
provision of easement(s), installation and clearance requirements, a
‘composite utlty plan, street grading requirements, field survey
information, road cross-sections, and consideration of various other
conditions as set out by Enbridge Gas Distribution Inc.;

(©) The requirements of Hydro One Distribution with respect to the
installation of electrical servicing and associated easement(s);

(f) The requirements of Cogeco Cable Canada Inc. with respect to the
provision of easement(s) and installation of Cable servicing and
associated easement(s);

(@)_ The requirements of Bell with respect to the provision of easement(s)
nd installation of communication/telecommunication infrastructure and
consideration of various other conditions as set out by Bell;

(h) The developer's responsibilty to prepare a Tree Saving Plan and Tree
Planting Schedule for each lot for review and approval by the City of
Brockville prior to development of each lot

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Committee Minutes -
Tuesday, April 07, 2015

Page 4 of 8

iy)

y)

vi)

vil)

vil)

ix)

x)

xi)

‘That prior to final approval of the Plan, lot grading, drainage, erosion and
sediment control, and services plan with best management practices be
prepared by a qualified Professional Engineer for the Owner, to the
satisfaction of the City of Brockville and the Cataraqui Region Conservation
Authority, and that appropriate text to implement its findings shall be
included in the Subdivision Agreement;

‘That prior to final approval of the Plan, the developer shall enter into a cast
sharing agreement with the City of Brockville for various storm sewer,
sanitary sewers, water mains, road work, sidewalks, electrical and street
lighting construction, beyond and within limits of the Plan, and engineering
design. The extent of said agreement is at the discretion of the City of
Brockville;

‘That prior to the final approval of the Plan, a detailed Stormwater
Management Brief shall be prepared by a qualified Professional Engineer
for the Owner, to the satisfaction of the City of Brockville and the Cataraqui
Region Conservation Authority, and that appropriate text to implement its
findings shall be included in the Subdivision Agreement;

‘That in conjunction with the proposed construction plan the Owner shall
provide specific locations and dates (i.e. set-up and removal) forall
onstruction/sales buildings, structures andior trailers, outdoor toilets, etc.
Said locations shall be to the satisfaction of the City of Brockuille prior to
placement. Any and all such temporary structures shall be located only for
's0 long as is necessary for the work in progress.

‘That no tree clearing shall be permitted until approval of a Tree Saving Plan
{for each lot or block is prepared utilizing best management practices to be
identified in the Subdivision Agreement and as approved by the City of
Brockville.

‘That prior to Final approval of this Plan, the subject land lying within IPZ-2
shall be assessed and approved as per requirements under the Clean
Water Act, 2008.

‘That prior to Final approval of this Plan, a walkway connection between
Centre Street and the Junic lands shall be examined and assessed for
feasibility. Should such a walkway connection be determined to be feasible,
the creation and or location of the said walkway shall be to the satisfaction
of the City of Brockville prior to placement;

‘That prior to Final approval of this Plan, the owner shall pay any and all
‘outstanding taxes levied against the Plan;

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Committee Minutes -
Tuesday, April 07, 2015

Page 5 of 8

xi) That, if final approval of the Plan is not granted within three (3) years of the
date of approval of the Draft Plan, and no extensions have been granted,
Draft Plan approval shall lapse in accordance with Section 51 (32) of the
Planning Act, R.S.O. 1990, c.P-13. Itis the sole responsibilty of the Owner
to make such application for extension of Draft Plan approval; and

xi) That the Final Plan, as approved by the City of Brockville, must be
registered within sixty (60) days of the date of final approval or the City's
‘approval may be withdrawn in accordance with Section 51 (59) of the
Planning Act, R.S.O. 1990, c.P.13,

CARRIED
Mr. Faurschou, Planner 1 reviewed the report for the committee.

Councilor Deery asked for confirmation that any concerns raised at the Public Meeting
had been addressed. He felt there were specific concerns around excessive speed on
Centre Street. Mr. Faurschou confirmed that they had dealt with any concerns directly
related to planning. He will follow up with the Operations Department regarding
measures to slow traffic down.

2015-029-04
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-Law 050-2014
22 Perth Street, City of Brockville

‘Owner: The Dawson Real Estate Group

Agent: Joseph Madigan

Moved by: Councillor Kalivas.

THAT Zoning By-law 050-2014 be amended to rezone lands described as Lot 13, Block
44, Plan 67, City of Brockville, County of Leeds, with municipal address 22 Perth Street,
from MD ~ Mixed Use Downtown Zone to MD ~ Mixed Use Downtown Special
Exception Zone, to permit residential occupancy of the ground floor space, in addition to
all other uses permitted within the MD ~ Mixed Use Downtown Zone, be approved.

CARRIED

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Committee Minutes -
Tuesday, April 07, 2015

Page 6 of 8

2015-033-04
Request to deem lots not registered parts of Bridlewood Subdivision
Registered Plan 375, Brockville

‘Owner: 653973 Ontario Lid,

Applicant: Wilsor/Evely

Moved by: Mayor Henderson

THAT Part Lot 4 and Lot 135, Registered Plan 375, City of Brockville, County of Leeds,
be deemed not registered

CARRIED
2015-034-04
Bud's on the Bay Request for License to permit
‘patio on Broad Street road allowance

Moved by: Councillor Bursey

THAT Council authorize the Mayor and City Clerk to execute a licence agreement with
John Ackerman, Owner, Bud's on the Bay Restaurant for the use of a portion of land on
the east side of Broad Street road allowance for a patio as per the submitted drawing,

CARRIED

2015-099-04
CIP- Downtown Program Guidelines
Facade Improvement Grant (FIG) and
Residential or Commercial Conversion!
Rehabilitation Grant (RCCR) Programs
land Priority for 2015 Funding

Moved by: Councillor Bursey

‘THAT the program guidelines for the Downtown Community Improvement Plan's
Facade Improvement Grant Program and Residential or Commercial
Conversion/Rehabilitation Grant Program be reatfirmed with priority for 2015 funding of
Cligible projects to be weighted in favour of rehabilitation or improvements to older
building stock.

CARRIED

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Committee Minutes -
Tuesday, April 07, 2015

NEW BUSINESS - REPORTS FROM MEMBERS OF COUNCIL

Nil
BRAINSTORMING

Ms. S. MacDonald, City Clerk informed the committee that an appeal had been received
regarding the request to remove the Heritage designation at 40 Crawford Avenue. This is
now in the hands of the Ontario Heritage Trust and it will likely take 4 to 6 weeks before there
is a mediator appointed,

CONSENT AGENDA
Moved by: Councillor Bursey
THAT the following items be placed on the Consent Agenda:

1. 2018-027-04
Proposed Plan of Subdivision and Proposed Amendment to City of Brockville
Zoning By-Law 050-2014 Part of Lots 15, 19 and 22, Plan 206,

Centre Street-Phase Il, City of Brockville

2. 2015-029-04
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-Law 050-2014
22 Perth Street, City of Brockville

3. 2018-033-04
Request to deem lots not registered parts of Bridlewood Subdivision
Registered Plan 375, Brockville

4, 2015-034-04
Bud's on the Bay Request for License to permit
a patio on Broad Street road allowance

5. 2015-039-04
CIP- Downtown Program Guidelines.
Facade Improvement Grant (FIG) and Residential
or Commercial Conversion/Rehabiltation Grant (RGR) Programs
and Priority for 2015 Funding

Page of 8

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Committee Minutes -
Tuesday, April 07, 2015

ADJOURNMENT
Moved by: Councillor Kalivas

‘THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee adjourned its meeting until the
next regular meeting scheduled for May 5, 2015.

CARRIED

The meeting adjourned at 7:23 pm.

Page 8 of 8

