QO Economic Development &

BROCKVILLE Planning Committee
Tuesday, March 01, 2016, 5:15 pm
COMMITTEE MINUTES City Hall, Council Chambers.

Members Present:
Councillor P. Dery, Chair
Councillor L. Bursey
Councillor D. LeSueur

Absent:
Councillor M. Kalivas
Mayor D. Henderson, Ex-Officio

Stat
Mr. B. Casselman, City Manager
Ms. S. MacDonald, City Clerk (Recording Secretary)

‘The Chair called the meeting to order at 5:15 pm.
DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST

Nil.

DELEGATIONS AND PRESENTATIONS.

1. The Works
(Ms. Kim Buckley & Mr. Cor Schruers)

Moved by: Councillor LeSueur

THAT the EDP Committee refers this matter to staff for review and report to.
Council on March 22nd.

CARRIED
‘The Works Event Canada. Ms. Buckley explained that The Works develops
and provides event planning services, including several proprietary events

throughout Ontario and Quebec. Their portfolio includes work on the Quebec
City, Carnival du Quebec. They have recently begun discussions with the

Page 1 of 2

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Committee Minutes -
Tuesday, March 01, 2016

Brockville Railway Tunnel Committee to plan an event to mark the opening
of the tunnel in 2017 and in celebration of Canada’s 150th Anniversary.

‘The proposed event is a four day event, August 10th to 13th, 2017. The
event celebrates the grand opening of the tunnel using a theme of the
Victorian period in keeping with the time period of the original opening of the
tunnel and the 150th Anniversary of Canada. It is proposed to partner with
Canada Tour 150 for a grant. The focus will be on the opening of the tunnel
with a ribbon cutting and other events.

Mr. Casselman asked what was the purpose of today’s presentation; what
are they seeking from the municipality? Ms. Buckley indicated that The
Works was commissioned by the Tunnel Committee to design an event for
the tunnel opening. It has since morphed into something more. They are
seeking the City’s support of the event.

Councillor LeSueur explained that the tunnel opening has evolved into a
several day event. There does not appear to be any support from community
to organize an event for the 150th Canada celebration.

It was summarized that the presentation is on behalf of the tunnel
committee, for the City to take on financial liability, hire The Works as event
managers, approve the use of City facilities and make applications for
funding support.

Mr. Casselman asked who would receive the proposed surplus of $180,000
presented in the draft budget. Ms. Buckley explained that this would be a
City festival, all surpluses would belong to the City as would any deficits.
She explained that the main risk is weather but most events are being held
under tents.

ADJOURNMENT

Moved by: Councillor Bursey

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee adjourned its meeting
until the next regular meeting scheduled for April 5, 2016.

CARRIED

‘The meeting adjourned at 6:33 pm.

Page 2 of 2

