Public Meeting

2 Economic Development &

BROCKVILLE pevero’

‘rv OF wa nD SCANS Planning Committee
Tuesday, December 02,2014, 6:00 pm

COMMITTEE MINUTES City Hall, Council Chambers

Gommittee Members:

Councillor J. Baker, Chair
Councilor L: Bursey

Councillor D. LeSueur

Councillor Mayor D. Henderson, Ex-Otticio

Absent:
Councilor M. Kalivas

‘Other Members:
Councillor P. Deery

Staff:
Mr. J. Faurschou, Planner |

Ms. S. MacDonald, City Clerk

Mr. A. McGinnis, Planner

Ms. L. Murray, Deputy City Clerk (Recording Secretary)
Ms. M. Pascoe Merkley, Director of Planning

Mr. D. Paul, Director of Economic Development

‘The Chair called the meeting to order at 6:00 pm
Tem

1. 2014-195-12
Proposed Plan of Subdivision and
Proposed Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014
Part of Lots 15, 19 and 22, Plan 206, being Parts 2 and 5, Reference Plan 28R-
12501 Centre Street, City of Brockville
‘Owner: Brockville Centre Development Corporation
‘Agent: PMP 7904274 Canada Inc. - Ms. Jane Almond
Files: D14-002 (050-2014) and 08T-14502

Moved by: Councillor Bursey
THAT Report 2014-135-12 be received as information and that a report on this matter

be prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic Development Planning

‘Committee at a future meeting for recommendation to Council
CARRIED

Page 1 of 7

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, December 02, 2014

Mr. Baker, Chair, introduced the public meeting and read from the prepared required
‘comments,

Mr. Jonathan Faurschou, Planner |, announced that the Notice of Public Meeting
respecting the applications for Subdivision Approval and Zoning By-law Amendment
was advertised in the Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper on October 30, 2014
and was circulated to property owners within 120.0 metres (400.0 ft.) of the subject
property. In addition, a sign was posted on the subject property advising that the lands
are the subject of an Application for Amendment to the City of Brockville Zoning By-law
(050-2014 and Application for Subdivision Approval

Councillor Baker, Chair, asked that any person wanting further notice of the passage of
the proposed amendment should give their full name, address and postal code to the
Secretary prior to leaving the meeting.

Councillor Baker reviewed the procedures for the Public Meeting

Mr. Faurschou provided an overview of the proposed zoning amendment and
‘subdivision and introduced and provided the Committee and Staff with comments from
the Operations Department dated November 27", 2014 and a letter from Ms. Debra
Bolfie of D.G. Belfie Planning and Development Consulting Ltd., dated December 2°,
2014. (attached)

‘The applicant Ms. Jane Almond offered a review of her presentation that spoke about
existing conditions and provided an overview of the project.

Mr. John Mackey is concerned about the future of the trees on lot number one. He really
does not want fo see those trees cut down due to construction. He asked ifthe City has.
‘some type of by-law in place to ensure safety of the trees.

Mr. Faurschou replied that the City does not have such a by-law but that they do
‘encourage developers to save as many trees as possible and if they can't, they are
required to plant new ones.

Mr. Mackey also wondered ifthe services will be underground as he finds the above
‘ground polesiwires etc. unsightly. Mr. Faurschou said the services are preferred to be
underground where possible. The question will be examined by the Applicant, City and
Hydro One.

Mr. Mackey asked if there will be consideration given to the creek behind the lots and
the fact that during wet times of year, it can become swollen.

Page 2017

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, December 02, 2014

Mr. Faurschou answered that drainage will be part of the plan of subdivision and will be
reviewed by Engineering down the road. Also CRCA (Cataraqui Region Conservation
Authority) is consulted during this process.

Mr. Mackey asked if there will be right of ways to the backyards. The developer, Mr.
Rob Thompson confirmed that right-of-ways are required for all middle units,

Mr. William Watson asked if there was flexibility in the setbacks within the by-law in
‘order to make the streetscape more interesting

Mr. Faurschou explained the City’s setbacks are typically 6 metres. However, in this
‘case, the minimum front yard setback is 9.0 metres. Given the depth of the lots, there is
‘an option for the developed to stagger units while maintaining the minimum 9.0 metre
setback. Mr. Thompson agreed to give this suggestion some consideration when
finalizing details.

Mr. Larry Brennan explained that he has had trouble with a wet basement ever since
they began the Brock Street subdivision. He is hoping that the drainage issue will be
dealt with at this time. Ms. Pascoe Merkley replied that they plan to improve Centre
Street in 201Sand it should be resolved at that time. He also wondered if connections to
City sewer would be made available at that time. Ms. Pascoe Merkley offered that yes
this would be the case and this would be by choice of the homeowner as there will be a
cost fo the homeowner to hook up to the sewer.

Mr. Alan Lindsay wondered how they will manage building on Lot One as there is a
huge rock there. He hoped there would be no blasting as there has been blasting in the
past that has been detrimental to his home.

Mr. Thompson replied that the rock will present challenges but there will hopefully be
very litle jack hammering and no blasting.

Mr. Gerard Asbruek wondered if the right of way could be moved southerly to line up
with Baxter Drive. Mr. Thompson felt that this could pose a large problem as Baxter
Drive is directly across from the large rock on lot one. Mr. Thompson and Ms. Almond
slated that they would discuss the relocation with their engineer and with Junic
Developments.

Referring to Mr. Watson's comment on pedestrian access from Junic lands to Centre
Street, Ms. Belfie offered that her client, Juni, is interested in discussing the pathway
between the two properties and provided a signed original copy of the letter from D.C.
Belfie Planning and Development Consulting Ltd., dated December 2", 2014. Mr.
‘Thompson and Ms. Almond stated that they would discuss the pathway location with
their engineer and with Junic.

Page 3.017

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, December 02, 2014

Ms, Janet Rose asked for a description of “townhouse”. She wondered if they would be
bungalows or multi stories.

Mr. Thompson confirmed they would be one level townhomes as were builtin Phase 1
of Centre Street.

Heather Watson asked if they could install speed bumps when rebuilding Centre Street.
She added that people drive very fast on this road and itis used by many pedestrians,
bboth young and ald.

Councilor Baker replied that the Operations Department is not in favour of speed
‘bumps as they are very hard to manage when plowing snow. In addition speed bumps
are generally only used on private property. He added that there are other ways to
reduce the speed of trafic

Councilor Bursey said that this was an issue in that area when he was canvassing. He
had spoken with Conal Cosgrove, Director of Operations, and he was going to look into
having some additional signage posted in this area.

Mr. Kevan Williams wondered if the reconstruction of Centre Street would proceed
regardless of whether this subdivision was approved. Mrs. Pascoe Merkley confirmed
that the road construction is planned to go ahead whether the subdivision does or not.
Councilor Baker indicated that this matter will be considered by the Economic
Development and Planning Committee at a fulure meeting, which will make a
recommendation to Counc

‘The meeting adjourned at 6:51 pm

The Request for Information Sheets are on file in the Clerk's Office.

Page 4 017

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, December 02, 2014

aa Paco ty
Fe sae sopestane Fae i of Cane Brat
‘cule Corts Bosopment Corporation Fie oH aot and Ove

am arta on bor of dae tonnes cet 59 ong Set sey he
Fraps deb adontng acon Sea Pan Resor apport
‘inet Rested mea ent oe eae ome

‘igh Pte rng am fb Ae ees oft worms
‘meas tam ha yang Svuoy Coins man er

trout nomen Foioer be uate etry rs teenies ex oy A
‘ister natenye ert sae! oa pas 22 atm amy rato. Bed
‘tats em areata nest Sa 3 fraagh Bec 5221 end 90, some
nine wched abt si mtvace ne teres Ov ocrort oporde heey
oncaon Byeogh a Cone Seat intent of Bader Sree. Howere, tocol De
‘ators eahnay oro spa Com Seo nasbener pep nib red A ey
(ule neat tbe schom ems ea Cores Stee sansa crash
‘Bric Bock 0 as uhowe on Pe ached at pao uncon THs wl compel
‘Eorctan tren s Coren Set

‘nde pro oe patrway crmacto, Je equnsg theo tn of wes or
the Brodie Corre Devoanrrt Coseratr ath be aeros a ed fe owes

2 paeCONE TM SLE OWI 11

Page 5 ot7

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, December 02, 2014

Page 6 of 7

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, December 02, 2014

Sena Ronn 2 sts
‘Sjece Ps Cote Sat Poe way

‘Conte hk pn hero end at Lon Cone sree Passo,

nee se a waka concn eet set 99th an cron Ce
Stee aa alr tenancy usta al rag oe Spm Theorie

Steet mae ua shoudrehce prion hrtupwekanyineonan Datos tse
par rsenton emt apyrupite ke Ge hay Ut Get Pa pate Sooper

Page 7 of 7

