Page 1 of 26

ray Economic Development and
BROCKVILLE Planning Committee
‘ervOF HE ooo SANE Tuesday, December 3, 2013, 4:30 pm

City Hall, Council Chambers
Commitee Members ‘reas of Responsibiny
Councilor M. McFall, Chair Economic Development Economic Dovelopmont
Councilor D. Beatty Planning Aaiisory Team
Councilor M.Kaivas «Chamber of Commerce ‘Museum Board
Councilor D. LeSueur BIA Library Board
Mayor D. Henderson, Hertage Broce As Centre
ExOttcio Tourism
Page COMMITTEE AGENDA

DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST

DELEGATION(S) AND PRESENTATION(S)

3-9 1. CARP - Age Friendly Designation
(Dawn Edgley)
(CORRESPONDENCE
Nil

‘STAFF REPORTS

10-18 1, 2018-141-12
Festival and Events Co-ordinator

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee recommend to
Council the establishment of a festival and events reserve account being
$119,000 +1- surplus generated from profit of the Tall Ships Festival- 1812
Tour, and further;

THAT the City enter into a three year contractual agreement with the
Brockville and District Chamber of Commerce/Tourism Office for a Festival
‘and Event Coordinator position with terms and conaitions to be presented to
Couneil at a later date for ratification.

14-26

Pago 2 of 26

Economic Development and Planning Committee
December 3, 2013,

2. 2013-097-09
Revised Policy
City Property Transactions

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee recommend to
Council the endorsement on the revised policy of the process associated with
City property transactions inclusive of the revised Purchase of Sale
Agreement.

Note: This matter was referred to this meeting from the September 3rd
‘meeting to permit revisions to the form as per the Committees comments.
Please refer to the revised Property Term Sheet attached.

NEW BUSINESS - REPORT FROM MEMBERS OF COUNCIL
Nil

CONSENT AGENDA

MOTION TO MOVE INTO CLOSED SESSION (immediately following the
regular meeting)

‘THAT pursuant to Municipal Act, 2001, Section 239 Sub. 2(c), Committee resolve
itself into Closed Session to consider:

1. a proposed or pending acquisition or deposition of land by the municipality or
local board,

ADJOURNMENT

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee adjourned its meeting
Until the next regular meeting scheduled for January 7, 2014.

Page 3 of 26

11/28/2013


Page 4 of 26

11/28/2013

Age Friendly Communities are de: , meet the

needs of citizens of all ages by identifying
w O

COMMUNITY LOOK LIKE


Page 5 of 26

11/28/2013

WANTS AND neevs We

HOME AND COMMUNITY

AGE FRIENDLY COMMUNITIES

Pago 6 of 26

11/28/2013

WHY IS THIS \
IMPORTANT?


Pago 7 of 26

11/28/2013

HEALTH = WEALTH


Page 8 of 26

11/28/2013

BENEFITS \ 4

DLDER PEOPLE

A RECIPE FOR re )


Page 9 of 26

11/28/2013

New Committee? @

An Active Aging Policy

NEXT STEPS


Page 10.125,

November 25, 2013

REPORT TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING COMMITTEE ~
December 3, 2013

2013-141-12
FESTIVAL & EVENTS COORDINATOR DAVID C. PAUL

DIRECTOR OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM.
RECOMMENDATION

‘THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee recommend to Council the
‘establishment of a festival and events reserve account being $115,000 +/- surplus
‘generated from profit of the Tall Ships Festival- 1812 Tour, and further,

‘THAT the City enter into a three year contractual agreement with the Brockville and
District Chamber of Commerce/Tourism Office for a Festival and Event Coordinator
position with terms and conditions to be presented to Council ata later date for
ratification

PURPOSE

‘To provide supplementary financial assistance to the Brockville and District Chamber of
‘Commerce/Brockville Tourism Office to enable the Chamber to create a designated
Festival and Events Coordinator for the facilitation on all existing festivals and special
‘events and the potential introduction of another signature festival for the community

BACKGROUND

‘+ The Tall Ships 1812 Tour, First Port of Call Brockville, generated a financial
surplus of approximately $115,000 + during this year’s June 2013 weekend.

‘+ The Tall Ships Festival Committee responsible for this successful venue have
publically expressed to the Council and community the desire for a new position
to facilitate both existing and future festivals and special events for Brockville

‘+ There is no intent to currently host another Tall Ships festival, and further, the
touring of tall ships occur on a cycle of 3 to 5 years as organized by Tall Ships
America,

‘+ The subject recommendation would enable all current and future festivals and
special events to secure qualified coordination and guidance on hosting for their
events.

Page 11 0126,
2013-141-12
FESTIVAL & EVENTS COORDINATOR Page 2

+ Most festvals/events rely heavily on volunteers who often suffer “bum out’, and
2s such, the constant recruitment by charities and special interest groups
seeking new personnel.

‘* Several Ontario communities of similar population already provide this support
function as noted on the Attachment A.

‘+ The contracting of such a position as an extension of the existing Tourism
Service Agreement between the City and the Brockville & District Chamber of
Commerce/Tourism Office is a logical option based on the success and
‘experience documented by the Chamber on both market promotion, visitor
‘services and hosting of several special events.

* The Chamber of Commerce is aware of the recommendation and is favourably
disposed to provide this supplementary service.

+ The Chamber will provide any additional salary and benefits necessary to secure
‘a qualified candidate and commit to the three year term.

‘= A full job description including the negotiated final terms will be presented to
Couneil prior to ratification

Attachment A

‘Survey of Communities with Festival and Event Coordinators

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATION
‘There currently are surplus revenues of approximately $104,000 in the Tall Ships
‘account with an additional final $15,000 final payment forthcoming from the Provincial

Government. The estimate after final adjustments will leave a balance of approximately
$115,000.

Director of Economic Development Director of Corporate Services

a

City Manager


Page 12.1 25,
12013-141-12-Report to EOP -Festval Events Coordinator Appendix A

| Event Coordinator
status pe eons
oer Town a8
rcebridge Town seal eS No
‘rater Wes Gitimbury Town 289
“Brockville - ity ns7 Yes ‘Considering hiring Event
Stat
Cobourg - Town 38.210 Yes ‘Yes Event Coordinator
‘under Munispalty
Colingwood Town 17290 Yes ‘Yes~ Event Coordinator -
‘unig
Eliot Lake ‘oy -ansa9,
erin “Tow ne -
tex “Town 2002 ve No
risby Town 907 6 No
untae Town 18280 —K
“ngersoll ‘Town 11,760,
‘ris (Aone tf iter) Town sas
| Kingsvile ‘Town 20,908 -
lasalle town | 2652 |
Leamington Town Yes Yes Superior of
Marketing & Special
| vents Manipal
Tom na —
- _ = | =
Orangeville Town BO Yes=150" Event
| | ‘coorintor-Municpal
‘orilia ‘city 30,259 Yes ‘Yes Manager of Special
| | Projects Municip!
eee Seer:


Page 13.0125,
12013-141-12-Report to EDP -Festval Everts Coordnater Appendix A

[owen Sound ry 278] Yes- ny

Pelham Town 16,155,

‘Pembroke ‘Oty 13,830, Yes | No

Petawawa Town 146s i |

For Caborne ‘aw same] vee ~~*Ces 2 Muni vet
P| coors

Port Hope - [= | 16390 Ye Yes- Chamber

‘Prince eaward (Pleton) | eity | 25,496 7

Saugeen Shores (ot Elgsovthmpton) | Fown ame ‘es-chamber

Tecumseh Town ama Ye

|

| remiskaming shores (Halleyoury-New Liskeard) City 10,442, Yes

Thorold jaw 13,224

‘Talsonburg |

[ener stoutae tom | 24300) -


Page 14.25

‘August 29, 2013

REPORT TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING COMMITTEE —
September 3, 2013

2013-087-09

REVISED POLICY - CITY PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS DAVID C. PAUL
DIRECTOR OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM

RECOMMENDATION

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee recommend to Council the
endorsement on the revised policy of the process associated with City property
transactions inclusive of the revised Purchase of Sale Agreement.

BACKGROUND
City Property Transactions- Revised Internal Process Policy

‘Transactions That Comply With City Zoning

1. Economic Development Office (EDO) and purchaser agree to all conditions and
covenants associated with the sale/acquisition transaction. The economic
development office will secure completed Form A (note attachment) confirming
details including seller/purchaser’s solicitor and proposed date of closure. Any
‘changes in covenants will require Council approval. Often there are minor
‘changes to the covenants to reflect the nature of the specific industrial
development

2. EDO receives formal agreement of sale from purchaser encompassing points of
agreement in Attachment A, including deposit of a minimum of $1000.00. Copy
of agreement forwarded to City solicitor to ensure conformity to negotiated
agreement and offer advice if required to protect interest of Cty.

3. EDO presents property transaction recommendation to the Economic
Development Planning committee at an closed meeting. City Solicitor may attend
depending on complexity of the subject proposed project. Copy of property
transaction form circulated to Clerk, Lawyer and City Manager.

4, EDO advises the seller/purchaser in two days following EDP meeting on the
acceptance/denial/changes to the earlier agreed recommendation. EDO will
confirm agreement with the client prior to the final submission to council for
ratification.

Page 15.01 25,

2013.097-09
REVISED POLICY - CITY PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS Page 2

5. EDP recommendation on property presented to closed council meeting for
ratification and assuming no changes to the document, proceed to open council
for bylaw approval at next Council meeting.

6. EDO advises client the following day after a council meeting on the outcome of
the recommendation and forwards the letter with attached directive the same day
noting outcome and point of contact being the clerk's office for processing.

7. Clerk's office will respond to Purchasers within two working days following the
‘council meeting acknowledging the transaction and ensuring that all
documentation is forwarded to the City Solcitor's office by Friday.

8. The City Solicitor to initiate the process for closure within five working days of
‘council ratification.

‘Transactions That Do Not Comply With City Zoning

41. The EDO will introduce project concept for review with City Manager, the
Planning Department and City Solicitor and copy to all city departments on
potential impacts, process and additional research or peer review required prior
to introduction to EDP at closed meeting.

2. City may wish to securing external review or research necessary to validate the
appropriateness ofthe proposed project for the community and the alignment to
the community’ strategic direction. Costing of such reviews to be negotiated with
purchaser pending the level and extent of the required assessment.

3. EDO will communicate in a timely manner response to the additional
requirements to ensure business speed considerations to cient's proposed
‘acquisition and development.

4, EDO introduces proposed transaction to EDP at closed meeting with participation
of both Panning and City Solicitor pending on the complexity of the project.

5. Pending favourable consideration by EDP, the process will continue as per the
‘standard city property transaction process with the exception of the required
planning and rezoning requirements for public notice and statutory meetings.

6. The revised covenant will provide the necessary protection for the Council on the

rezoning being considerate of the public inputs and additional assessment as
part of the process.

‘Attachment A: Property Transaction Template for City of Brockville

Page 16.0125,

2013-097-09
REVISED POLICY - CITY PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS Page 3

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATION

‘There is no direct costing associated with the current recommendation.

Pac

D. Paul D, Dick, CA.
Director of Economic Development Director of Corporate Services
3 Cédeeiman

City Manager

Page 17 0125,

[al

‘The Corporation ofthe
BROCKVILLE city of Brockville Property Transaction
suveR:

REALPROPERTY: §— —iajeqs

the “property’)

[ESTIMATED NUMBER OF ACRES: ‘Acres che mac scree shal be deterines

Shor compan ote eux)
PRICE (PER ACRE): Jscsesee olars (CONS) per acre
PURCHASE PRICE: .. : dollars (CDNS)

DePosir: dollars (CONS)

‘The deposit to be held in rust without interest pending completion or termination of an Agreement of
Purchase and Sale by the Solicitor forthe City of Brockville and to be credited toward the Purchase
Price on completion.

IREVOCABLTY: Ths Me shal be trevocabe by Buyer unl. am om. on te =
+ 20... after which time, if not accepted, this Offer shall be null and void and
the Soci sai be ered isto Buyer mf winou rarest

oupuzTion oATE: The Agreement of Purchase and Sale be completed by no tater than 4:0 pm. on
THE crs CY

(ST: This transaction is subject to Harmonized Sales
Purchase Price

x (H.S..), and shall be in addition to the

‘TILE SEARCH: Buyer shall be allowed unti 6:00 p.m. on the .. day of 120
-- (Requisition Date) to examine the tite to the property at his own expense.

SD ommusorsni: C_>

Page tof

INITIALS OF BUYER(S)


Page 18.0125

City of Brockville
Property Transaction

BUYER:

In addition tothe standard conditions applicable to the Ontario Real Estate Associations Agreement of
Purchase and Sale, the Buyer hereby agrees to the folowing additional conditions, where indicated by
Initiating, to be included on Schedule A to the Agreement of Purchase and Sale to be prepared by the

Salctor for the City of Brockville,

1. The Seller takes no responsibilty forthe soils, drainage or requirement for fil to
‘meet the requirements of the Seller forts permitted uses or to comply with any
statute or by-law either municipal, provincial or federal. Further the Seller takes
‘no responsibilty forthe actual existence of rights-of-way, ditches, underground
streams, gas lines, pipelines, of any kind whatsoever or for the necessity to
move or replace any ofthe foregoing or to fil them or otherwise deal wth them,
‘The costs related to the foregoing or the need forthe foregoing or the providing
of any services whatsoever tothe site unless otherwise specifically referred to
herein shall be bome by the Buyer.

‘Schedule A, Clause 1...

inal oajer
2. The Buyer orhishherits Agent warrants that the lands are being purchased for
his ierits own use for industrial purposes and not for speculative purposes.
Schedule A, Ciause 2
nie oye

3, The Seller agrees to secure and provide atthe expense ofthe Buyer, @
registrable description and thee (3) copies ofa plan of survey of the said parcel
prepared by an Ontario Land Surveyor. The description and plan shall show the
‘acreage of the parcel to three (3) decimal points and the purchase price herein
shall be calculated on the basis of such acreage.

‘Schedule A, Ciause 3

4, The deed shall be prepared and registered by the Buyer at his own expense.

‘Schedule A, Clause 4
inal oijer

5, The Buyer shall ensure that the gross floor area of the building(s) to be
constructed on the subject lands within one (1) year of the date of closing
‘comprises at least twenty-five percent (25%) of the developable area of the

‘subject ands.
Schedule A, Clause 5.

wusorevrensy > amuisor sewer © >

a ~ Page 20f 5

Page 19.125,

City of Brookville
Property Transaction

BUYER:

‘The Buyer agrees thatthe Seller shall have the right to repurchase the property
‘at ninety percent (80%) ofthe original purchase price within one (1) year ofthe
date of closing and at eighty percent (80%) ofthe original purchase price within
‘wo (2) years from the date of closing should a development project not proceed.

‘The Buyer shall forthwith re-convey the subject lands to the Seller free and clear
ofall encumbrances, including all mortgages and liens. The Buyer shall secure

and register such Discharges and Releases as are required at his own expense
‘and shall forthwith deliver vacant possession of the subject lands tothe Seller.

‘This right and option shall be exercised by letter delivered personally or by
registered mail by the Seller to the Buyer after the expiration ofthe one (1) year
‘or two (2) year period

Schedule A, Clause 6 ....
Ini oie

‘The Buyer agrees thatthe Seller shall have first right of refusal to repurchase any
‘surplus vacant portion of the property at market value fora period of three (3)
years from the date of closing, prior to the Buyer offering such surplus vacant
Portion of the property to any other persons.

‘The Buyer shall forthwith re-convey the subject lands tothe Seller free and clear
‘fall encumbrances, including all mortgages and liens, The Buyer shall secure
and register such Discharges and Releases as are required at his own expense
‘and shall forthwith deliver vacant possession of the subject lands to the Seller,
‘This right and option shall be exercised by letter delivered personally or by
registered mall by the Seller to the Buyer after the expiration of the three (3) year
petiog.

‘Schedule A, Ciause 7

D mtr D>

Page 3.0f5

Page 20.125,
City of Brockville
Property Transaction

BUYER:

8. The Buyer covenants and agrees that the folowing restrictions and covenants
‘shall apply to and be binding upon the Buyer, is or ts heirs, executors,
administrators, successors, and assigns and subject to the provision of this
paragraph contained, the said restrictions and covenants shall run with the land.

Schedule A, Clause 8...

9. The parties acknowledge that if rezoning Is required the Agreement of Purchase and
‘Sale is conditional upon the rezoning of subject lands. The City can use its unfettered
discretion to approve or not approve the rezoning of the subject lands.

‘Scheudle A, Clause 9
By signing this document the Buyer hereby agrees that conditions as agreed upon inthis

‘document shall be included in the Agreement of Purchase and Sale to be prepared by the Solicitor for
the Corporation of the City of Brockville

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Buyer has hereunto set its hand and seal this day of
20
‘SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED Buyer
Inthe presence of ,
)
) Per
)
)
Per:

‘The Corporation of the City of Brockville

Per:
David C. Paul
Director of Economic Development

Page 4 0f5

Page 21 of 25

City of Brookville
Property Transaction

BUYER: ...

verusoreunne: © amisorseusn C_>

Page 5 of 5

Page 22 01 25,

ror c¢ The Corporation of the
BROCKVILLE city of Brockville Property Term Sheet

BUYER:

REAL PROPERTY:

(he propery)

ESTIMATED NUMBER OF ACRES: ‘Acres (The exact avageshatbe determina
Ubon competon one son)

PRICE (PER ACRE}: dollars (CONS) per acre

PURCHASE PRICE: dollars (CONS)

DePosir: dollars (CONS)

“The deposit to be held in trust without interest pending completion or termination of an Agreement of

Purchase and Sale by the Solicitor forthe City of Brockville and to be credited toward the Purchase
Price on completion.

|IRREVOCABILITY: This Offer shall be irrevocable by Buyer until aumJp.m. on the day

of 20... after which time, i not accepted, this Ofer shall be null and void and
the deposit shall be retuened tothe Buyer in full without interes.

‘COMPLETION DATE: The Agreement of Purchase and Sale be completed by no later than 4:00 p.m. on
the day of 20

‘GST: This transaction is subject to Goods and Services Tax (G.S.7.), and shall be in adaltion to the
Purchase Price.

Title Search: Buyer shall be allowed until 4:00 p.m. on the .....day of 20....{ Reauisition
Date) to examine the tite to the property at his her own expense.

Aewsoe Noverbar 2013 Page 1 of 5


Page 23 1 25,

City of Brockville
Property Transaction

BUYER:

In addition tothe standard conditions applicable to the Ontario Real Estate Associations Agreement of
Purchase and Sala, the Buyer hereby agrees tothe folowing additional conditions, where indicated by
initialing, tobe incldded on Schedule A to the Agreement of Purchase and Sale to be prepared by the
Solicitor for the City of Brockville;

1

The Soller takes no responsibilty for the solls, drainage or requirement for filo
‘meet the requirements of the Soller for its permitted uses or to comply with any
statute or by-law either municipal, provincial or federal. Further the Seller takes
‘no responsibilty for the actual existence of rights-of-way, dtches, underground.
streams, gas lines, pipelines, of any kind whatsoever or for the necessity to
‘move oF replace any ofthe foregoing orto fil them or otherwise deal with them.
The costs related to the foregoing or the need forthe foregoing or the providing
of any services whatsoever tothe site unless otherwise specifically referred to
heroin shall be borne by the Buyer.

Schedule A, Clause 1

‘The Buyer or his herits Agent warrants thatthe lands are being purchased for
histhevis own use for industial or employment purposes and not for speculative
purposes.

Schedule A, Clause 2

The Soller agroes to provide at the expense of the Buyer, aregistrable
description and three (2) copies of a plan of survey ofthe said parcel prepared
by an Ontario Land Surveyor of the sellers choice. The description and plan shall
show the acreage of the parcel to three (3) decimal points and the purchase
price herein shall be calculated on the basis of such acreage.

Schedule A, Clause 3

‘The deed shall be prepared and registered by the Buyer at his own expense.
Schedule A, Clause 4

‘The Buyer shall ensure thatthe gross floor area ofthe bulding(s) to be

‘constructed on the subject lands within one (1) year of the date of closing

comprises at least twenty-five percent (25%) of the developable area of the
‘subject lands.

Page 2 of 5

Page 24 1 25,

City of Brockville
Property Transaction

BUYER:

6. The Buyer agrees that the Seller shal have the right to repurchase the property
at ninety percent (20%) of the original purchase price within one (1) year from the
date of closing and at eighty percent (80%) ofthe original purchase price within
‘wo (2) years from the date of closing should a development project that meet the
criteria set out in paragraph 5 not proceed.

‘The Buyer shall forthwith re-convey the subject lands to the Seller free and clear
‘of all encumbrances, including all mortgages and liens. The Buyer shall secure
and register such Discharges and Releases as are required at his own expense
and shall forthwith deliver vacant possession ofthe subject lands to the Seller.

This right and option shall be exercisod by letter delivered personally or by
rogistered mail by the Seller to the Buyer after tne expiration of the one (1) year
‘or two (2) year period.

Schedule A, Clause 6

7. The Buyer agrees that the Seller shall have first right of refusal to repurchase any
‘surplus vacant portion ofthe property at market value for a period of three (3)
years from the date of closing, prior to the Buyer offering such surplus vacant
portion ofthe property to any other persons.

‘The Buyer shall forthwith re-convey the subject lands to the Seller free and clear
‘of all encumbrances, including all mortgages and liens. The Buyer shall secure
and register such Discharges and Releases as are required a his own expense
and shall forthwith deliver vacant possession ofthe subject lands to the Seller.
This right and option shall be exercisod by letter delivered personally or by
rogistered mail by the Seller to the Buyer after the expiration of the three (3) year
period.

Schedule A, Clause 7

Page 3 of 5


Page 25 01 25,

City of Brockville
Property Transaction

BUYER:

8 The Buyer covenants and agrees that the restrictions and covenants in an
‘agreement shall apply to and be binding upon the Buyer, his or its hers,
‘executors, administrators, successors, and assigns and subject to the provision
Of this paragraph contained, the said restrictions and covenants shall run with the
land

Schedule A, Clause 8

8 The parties be acknowledge that if an Official Pian Amendment or Zoning By Law
Amendment is required for the contemplated development, the Agreement of Purchase
and Sale will be conditional upon the completion ofthe planning process.

“The Buyer acknowledges and agrees that by entering into the Agreement of Purchase
and Sale, the Seller is not assuring that the planning approvals sought willbe supported
by the City of Brockville Planning Department, Economic Development and Planning
‘Committee or City of Brockvile Council,

“The Buyer further acknowledges that any or all ofthe planning process wil be initiated
by the Buyer atthe expense of the Buyer. The Seller agrees to appoint the Buyer as its
agent forthe planning applications.

Schedule A, Clause 9

By signing this document the Buyer hereby agrees that conditions as agreed upon inthis
{document shall be included in the Agreement of Purchase and Sale to be prepared by the Solicitor for
the Corporation of the Cty of Brockvil.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Buyer has hereunto sot its hand and seal this
20

day of

SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED
Inthe presence of

Per:

Per:

Page 4 of 5

Page 26 of 26

City of Brockville
Property Transaction

BUYER:

‘The Corporation of the City of Brockville

Per:
David C. Paul
Director of Economic Development

Page 5 of 5

