Page

97-103

104 - 108

Page 1 of 136

a Economic Development and
eat Planning Committee
BROCKVILLE ‘Tuesday, June 7, 2016, 5:15 pm

ity Hall, Council Chambers

Areas of Responsibility
Councillor P. Deery, Economic Development Economic Development
Chair Planning Advisory Team.
Councillor L. Bursey Chamber of Commerce Museum Board
Councillor M. Kalivas DBIA brary Board
Councillor D. LeSueur Heritage Brockville Arts Centre
Mayor D. Henderson, Tourism
Ex-Officio

COMMITTEE AGENDA

Disclosure of Interest

Delegations and Presentations

1

Brockville Museum 2015 Annual Report
Natalie Wood

Ms. Wood will provide a brief overview of the Museum operations from 2015
and present their 2016 plans.

2. Immigrant Entrepreneur Attraction
(Jacqueline Schoemaker Holmes, PhD, Project Researcher: Immigrant
Entrepreneur Attraction)

3. Age Friendly Designation
Dawn Edgley

Correspondence

Nil

Staff Reports

1. 2016-070-06

Proposed Amendment to Sign By-law 84-89
365 Stewart Bivd., Luna Pizzeria
‘Owner: Jim Kafenzakis

109-114

118-132

183-136

Page 2 of 136

Economic Development and Planning Committee
dune 7, 2016

2

3

4.

THAT the City of Brockville Sign By-law 84-89 be amended to permit a single
sided, non-animated, electronic message board, measuring 3.72 m2, to
replace the existing manual message board on the ground sign at 365
Stewart Blvd,

2016-071-06
Proposed amendment to Sign By-law 84-89
2454 Parkedale Avenue, McDonald's
‘Owner: McDonald's Restaurants of Canada
Applicant: Shawna Petzold, Permit World

THAT the City of Brockville Sign By-law 84-89 be amended to permit a
double-sided, non-animated, electronic message board, measuring 3.53 m2
per side, to replace the existing manual message board on the ground sign at
(2454 Parkedale Avenue.

2016-073-06
Proposed amendment to Zoning By-law
050-2014, 10 John Street

‘Owner: Juno (Brockville) Limited
Applicant: (Jane Almond MGIP RPP)

THAT Zoning By-law 050-2014 be amended to rezone property with municipal
address 10 John Street from R5-2-Multiple Residential Special Exception
Zone fo MD-Mixed Use Downtown Special Exception Zone to permit those
uses permitted in the MD-Mixed Use Downtown Zone and a Community
Health Resource Centre, with special zone provisions to recognize existing
building setbacks and the parking area setback from the street.

2016-072-06
Front Yard Parking Agreement
68-70 Schofield Ave.

THAT Council authorize the Mayor and Clerk to execute a Front Yard Parking
agreement with Dianne Poelstra and Wayne Rowsome, 68 & 70 Schofield
Avenue, Brockville, for the installation of a two front yard parking pads;
and

THAT encroaches onto the Schofield Avenue road allowance measuring 6.1
metres (20.0 ft) in length and 7.32 metres (24.0 ft.) in width.

New Business - Reports from Members of Council

Nil

Page 3 of 136

Economic Development and Planning Committee
dune 7, 2016

Consent Agenda
Motion to Move into Closed Session (following Regular Meeting)

THAT pursuant to Municipal Act, 2001, Section 239, Sub. 2, (), the Committee
resolve itself into Closed Session to consider:

1. a proposed or pending acquisition or disposition of land by the municipality or
local board

Report of the Committee from Closed Session
THAT the EDP Committee rise from Closed Session without reporting.
Adjournment

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee adjourned its meeting
Until the next regular meeting scheduled for July 5, 2016.

Brockville Museum
2015 Annual Report
& 2016 Update

Open Drawer Project
» Completed three-dimensional objects and moved onto
photographic and archival collection

» Officially launched our on-line database as a means for
the public to access our holdings

Peapot plote>

Increased Visibility

» New website, exterior signage, and promotional material

Pagpos plote>

New Programs
» Brockvile’s Criminal Past Historical Walking Tour

Exciting Partnerships

» In 2015 we partnered with Brockville’ Dutch Community,
the Brockville Irish Cultural Society, St. Lawrence College,
the Broclwille Library, Ontario East British Home Child
Family and the Leeds and Grenville Branch of the Ontario.
Genealogical Society.

Pagpdé plote>

Greatest Challenge

» Limited physical capacity (don't have enough space)
» Lack of appropriate collection storage space remains a
real concern

Community Impact

» Since fall 2014 we have hosted 7 high-school co-students
who have worked on the Open Drawer Project

Peapob pote

Community Impact

» Room rentals and meeting space
» Volunteer Opportunities

» Career-Services placements

» Seniors Outreach programs

2016 = Exhibits
» We continue to roll out strategic initiatives aimed at
increasing visitation
» Ambitious exhibit schedule (3 new permanent and 3
temporaryltravelling exhibits in 2016)

Pagpb plobe>

2016 Events

» “Keep it Under Your
Stetson’ fundraising dinner
June 18%

» Brockville's Criminal Past
Walking Tour Fridays in July
and August.

» Brock Trail "Spirit" Walk
August 13% & September
rd

» Friends of the Brockville
Museum:"Raising a Pint for
the Brockville Museum”
August 16

Thank You!

» Now offering admission-by-donation
» Visit us online to find out more and to search the
database

www.brockvillemuseum.com

Pagpe8 plote>

Annual Report


Table of Contents

Page 11 of 136

Mission Statement and Statement of Purpose,
CCurator’s Message:
Reports
Governance
Finance
Collections.
Exhibitions.
Interpretation & Education.
Research
conservation
Physical Plant
community
Human Resources
Appendix.
General Ledger.
Exhibit Plan.
2015 Event Listing
Curator/Director Job Description.
Statistics Chart
Chronology of Events.
Inthe News

2015 Monitor Newsletters

19

26
2

2
a
a6
as
a6

Page 12 of 136

Mission Statement and Statement of Purpose

Mission Statement
‘The Brockville Museum is committed to preserving and promoting the history of Brockuile through
continuing quality exhibits and education programs. The museum activites are strongly supported by
‘an expanding collection of related artifacts and archival material

‘The Brockvle Museum grows with, and for the community, providing @ source of knowledge on the
heritage of Broclle for present and future generations

Statement of Purpose
‘The Brockville Museum demonstrates how the City of Brockville has developed from the earliest times
tothe present. Italo displays wide variety of themes to include ather cultures and topics not directly
related to Brockville

‘The museum has a responsiblity to grow, mature and continue ta evolve a a living, dynamic institution.
In this respect its purpase i

“+ Toiinform by means of museum exhibits, historical interpretive programs, research facies, and
publishing of written and visual materials.

‘+ Toaccept by gift or acquire by purchase those items, documents and artifacts which have been
made, sold or pertain to Brockville and provide facilities for their preservation, storage and
exhibition

‘+ Topreserve the museum collection by proper conservation measures.

‘+ To maintain on-going cultu
Brock.

and educational programs to serve children and adults of

‘+ To provide visitors withthe resources to gain knowledge of Brockville’: history and have an
‘enriching and memorable experience.

Page 18 of 136

Curator’s Message

Wood, Director

2015 was an exciting year for the Brockville Museum. There was definitely evidence that we were
‘emerging from the other side ofthe proverbial tunnel and that we were, in fact, still very much intact
and, dare | say it, even thriving. It was a year of seeing results from many ofthe initiatives that we had
recently putin place, designed primarily to increase visitation and improve efficiencies, including the
Open Drawer Project.

‘Wark on the Open Drawer Projet transitioned fram three-dimensional objects to the much anticipated
photographic and archival collection. Despite the challenge of reconciling an old cataloguing system
with current standards and the new database, this new phase in the project i exiting and our team of
‘Open Drawer volunteers have remained active and committed. A sincere thanks goes out to our
volunteers for their hard work and dedication, without whom this project would still be nothing more
than a dream. Though it will take some years yet to get all our photographs and archival dacuments
entered and online, progress is steady. By the end of 2015 the museum officially announced the
availabilty of our online database as 2 means fr the public to access our holdings-a decisive step that
celebrated the excruciating planning, solid commitment and real success of this long-awaited and multi-
year project.

Simultaneously we put a great deal of effort into increasing the museum's visibly in 2015, which
included launching 2 new website. The new website is more modern and reflective of our brand. In
addition to directing visitors to our online database, the site serves to provide information on museum
‘events, programs and exhibits in a concise, modern and dynamic way.

2015 also saw us improve the museum's visibility by instaling exterior banners, a new exterior sign
facing Hardy Park and new promotional rack card. Much of our regular advertising was also updated
‘and made more uniform to reflect our new brand,

Tes here, with heartfelt thanks, that I must acknowledge the incredible and steadfast support given us
by the Friends of the Brockville Museum, None of these initiatives would have been possible without
their financial backing. In 2015, the Friends contributed over $7,000 towards conservation supplies,
marketing material, exhibits and the Open Drawer Project. This important financial contribution fill 3
void in the museum's operating funding, serving primarily to support collections and exhibitions. The
museum remains grateful for the enviable support that it receives from the municipal government,
without which we could not possibly exist, however it isthe continued efforts and support from our
volunteers with the Friends that allow us to professionally and dynamically perform our role as a

[Another significant initiative launched in 2015 was our Criminal Past Walking Tours. In our 2014
Strategie Plan we suggested implementing mare on-site programs with the goal of increasing museum
Visitation; with the museum as the starting and ending point, we believed it could not only help our

Page 14 of 136

visiblity, but also our visitation. This theory proved very accurate. We had guests for every tour run
during the summer months, which for an inaugural program is astonishing.

Combined, these initiatives, designed to increase visiblity and visitation, proved successful. General
Visitation was up by almost 20% from any ofthe previous three years. although an improving US dollar
‘and lower gas prices likely contributed to this increase in visitation, we should not underestimate our
‘own intitives to capture these visitors and draw them to our site. Nor should we underestimate the
hard work carried out by staff to achieve these results, These initiatives do nat happen on their own,
nar do they automatically produce results; it takes @ tremendous amount of effort and perseverance on
the part ofthe team to bring these projects and outcomes to fruition. To this end I commend and thank
‘my team for powering through this dogged year and bringing these results to fruition

‘One of the truly amazing things about the Brockville Museum is just how entrenched it really i in the
‘community, and that it does serve as a community gathering point. As such, | would be remise to talk
about 2015 and not highlight the organic community partnerships with which we were apart, including:
Brackulle’s Dutch Community, the Brockville lish Cultural Society, St. Lawrence College, the Brockville
Library, Ontario East British Home Child Family and the Leeds and Grenville Branch of the Ontario.
Genealogical Society. What was most exciting about these partnerships was how well they not only
supported the individual organizations, but how well they concurrently helped to further the museum's

To dlose 2015, we made an official budgetary appeal to council to make our part-time Administrative
Asistant/Registrar position fulltime, the natural culmination of our Open Orawer Project and a priority
identified in our 2014 Strategic Plan. To our delight and relief, council voted in favour ofthe incremental
request item, and it will ake affect when the 2016 Budget is offically approved in the new year. This
definitely helns improve our internal efficiencies and will help us to better meet the needs of our
calletion and community.

[As we make significant progress on many fronts, the foremost challenge that continues to daunt
‘museum staff on a regular bass is our limited physical capacity. Lack of appropriate collection storage
space remains a real concern. Despite taking on the deaccessioning process where appropriate and
attempting to better utilise existing space, we have run out of room. Our ability to accept and care for
donations of large artifacts and large collections ae significantly hampered. In 2015 we reopened the
discussion of expansion (and even relocation) in earnest, but faced numerous obstacles in pursuing any
real solutions. Despite the lack of options avaliable to us, this conversation must continue in areal way
into 2016 and beyond

‘That said, we look ahead to 2016 with much anticipation. We have 2 plan to continue to roll out
initiatives aimed at further increasing visitation, including a full schedule of new permanent and
temporary exhibits. We are also excite for the new opportunities that will be brought about with the
long-awaited opening of the Aquatarium. There is litle doubt that 2016 will be an incredibly busy and
demanding year for us at the Brockville Museum, but this isa challenge that we heartedly accept,
‘equipped withthe successes of 2015 and a confidence in our team, our volunteers and our community.

Page 15 of 136

Reports
1. Governance
2. Finance
‘2. Fundraising Activites
3. Collections
4. Exhibitions
5. Interpretation and Education
‘+ Hospitals, Nursing Homes and Seniors’ Residences
1+ Homeschool
‘+ School Groups
‘+ Heritage Camps
‘+ Speaking Engagements
© Lectures
‘+ Birthday Parties
1+ Youth Groups & sleepovers
+ Teawith amy
© Walking Tour
© other
© Summary
Research
Conservation
Physical Plant
‘community
‘© Statistical Summary
‘+ Hours of Operation
+ User Groups
‘+ Special Events
+ Volunteers

© Outreach
120, Human Resources

Page 16 of 136

Governance
‘The Brockville Museum is governed by 2 publicly accountable Board of Management, appointed by the
City of Brockville. In 2015 the Board of Management met ten times.

In 2015 the Board of Management was comprised af:

“+ Chaitman: Brian Porter
‘+ Secretary: Chuck Quick

‘+ Council Representative: Phil Decry

‘+ Members: Dr.John Arnott, Daria Egan, Barbara Healy, Paul Naylor, Neil'Brien

Page 17 of 136

Finance
‘The Brockville Museum fs owned by the City of Brockulle; as such, the museum's annual budget is
‘approved by council. The Museums 2015 budget was $223,605,

Key Expenses

Staffing $219,855
Office Expenses 312551
Physical Plant $48,074
Programming $8,000
Collections Management & Exhibits $6,000
(Donations and Service Charges 317,500)
‘Community Museum Operating Grant (CMOG) S27 76.
Programs and Events $26,200

Although the Brockville Museum is principally supported by the City of Brockville, the museum is
responsible fr ralsing a significant amount of funds through donations, admissions, rental fees and

through educational programming and special events. The museum's annual budget is limited to
‘operations, so funds for projects and other initiatives must be sought thraugh ather sources including
the Friends ofthe Brockville Museum and provincial and federal grant, including Young Canada Works

In 2015, the Brockville Museum received its annual Community Museum Operating Grant (CMOG) of
527,176 towards operations; the Friends of the Brockville Museum covered nearly $8,000 worth of
‘expenses (including conservation and exhibit supplies, advertising and the Open Drawer Project); and
the museum received a Young Canada Works grant for one summer student as well as for one student
{rom Canada Summer Jobs (via the Friend).

[A copy of the 2015 Brockville Museum's general ledger report can be found in the appendix of this
document.

Fundral

ing
Im 2015 the museum continued to garner the support ofthe community through a wide aray of special
events.

‘The following chart shows the total monies raised tall special and fundraising events held by the
Brockville Museum during 2015:

Date Event participants
‘September 23, Pink Pills Anniversary inner $450.00 18
October 28 ‘Montreal Museum of Fine Arts Bus Tour $435.00 39

* aed on budgeted amounts (projected)
* eased on budgeted amounts project)

Page 18 of 136

In addition, the Friends of the Brockulle Museum held the following special and fundraising events
during 2015:

Date Event Net participants
‘April 27 = May & Book Sale $1635.00 191
June 27 & 28 Hidden Garden Tour $2808.00 321
‘October 2&3 Sent Auction $2208.00 8
November 27 Beer Tasting $731.00 a7
November 23 Fudge Fundraiser $287.50 18

In 2015 the museum increased its focus on soliciting donations specifically for exhibits. Continuing with
the “People of Brockville” panel sponsorship program, 6 panels were unveiled on February 14 and
‘another 4 on June 19. Monies were also given by the late Robert Palmer for the new railway exhibit
being installed in the former St. Alban's Room.

Page 19 of 136

Collections

In 2015, volunteers completed the transfer of the 6,000 three dimensional items into the new online
database, All new 2015 acquisitions have photographs attached, and co-op students have been working
to photograph the remaining collection, with new images being attached dally.

In January, volunteers began entering in records for the Museum's Archival collection. This was done in
two parts. The Museum's archival catalogue records contained valuable, though insufficient,
information about the object, making it imperative that the objects be recatalogued with the new
database in mind

‘+ Part one dealt with entering in acquisition information about each archival object. This
information was found on the objects catalogue record. Information like donor, accession
number, object name and description where entered in during this phase. Since interpretation
‘and information were minimal, Volunteers completed this part of the project in erly August.

‘+ Part two deals with handling and cataloguing objects. Volunteers received Collections
"Management and Care and Handling training by staff in preparation for this part of the project.
Volunteers are each assigned an archival box that houses items orgenized by subject matter. On
‘an inventory sheet, the volunteer records the accession number, object name, and any
foreseeable issues surrounding the object (Is the object a reproduction, isfisn't there an
‘accession number assigned to the abject, do two or more identical items exist). This document
will act asa Table of Contents for each box that highlights objects that should be reviewed at a
later date. Additionally, volunteers are cataloguing the objects in the database by recording
information like condition, measurements, associations, and locations.

‘The Museum has received three Co-op students during the 2015 year that have photographed,
inventoried and recatalogued items in the Museums archival and three dimensional collections. These
three students have been valuable assets forthe continuation ofthe Open Drawer Project.

‘The Museum accepted roughly 400 objects into its permanent collection during the 2015 year. itshould
be noted that many ofthese items came from aut of town donors, ranging from New Zealand, Florida,
‘and Toronto. In addition tothe Collection Committee taking a more selective approach on which objects
to accession, they have also gained a greater understanding about the importance af responsible
collections management and evaluating your collection on a regular basis. With this in mind, we
successfully reviewed and desccessioned 109 items. These items were either gifted ta mare appropriate
public institutions, moved ta the research or costume collection or placed offsite until a more suitable
hhame can be found,

Page 20 of 136

Exhibitions
Building on our 2013 Interpretive Plan, we continued to enhance our existing exhibits while instaling 3
number of temporary exhibits and displays in 2015, We alsa partnered with a couple of community
‘organizations to present unique exhibitions both on- and off-site, 2015 also saw us make concrete
‘exhibition plans for 2016 and beyond, which includes procuring traveling exhibitions from the Royal
‘Ontario Museum and the Archives of Ontario (an exhibition plan can be found inthe appendix of this
document).

Perhaps the most notable exhibit development of 2015 was our People of Brockville panels. Launched
in 2014, this exhibit campaign sought sponsorships from our members and supporters for text panels
celebrating Brackvile's notable citizens. This campaign proved so successful in 2015 that we had to put
the campaign on pause and decided to plan an entre exhibit around the panels (for installation in 2016)
‘as we ran out of space to display the 16 panels that had been sponsored.

‘Another exiting exhibit project in 2015 was a partnership with St. Lawrence College and the Brockville
Library. These two local educational institutions planned an exhibition at the Marianne van Sithout
Gallery (at St Lawrence College) celebrating Brockile’s art history. The installation included a number
‘of works of art featuring local artists and local scenes from over fifty years ago or more. The museum
‘agreed ta lend several pieces from our collection for the initiative, including pieces by RLH. Lindsay and
RL. Wright. It was a great opportunity to showease some of the museum's works of art nat generally
displayed.

Exhibit Description D Location Type
SOVears ofthe Flag. Alook st the istory ofthe Canadian February2015 Beecher Temporary
flag and the role played by Srockvile August 2015 House Exhibit

resident John Ross Matheson,
Brockville A small display telling the history of February 2015 Brockle Temporary
Snowshoe Club Brochvile’s Snowshoe Club Public Display

Library

‘Accessioningand A small display explaining the March 2015- Lobby Temporary
Deaccessioning museum process of accessioning and T&D Display

desccessioning,

‘Made in Brockville A showcase of over a dozen products Instaledlune Upper Permanent

Display Case once manufactured in Brockville, 2015 Galery Display
Made in Brockville: A isplay highlighting the Installed Jane Upper Seri-
‘Automatic Electric manufacturing of telephones in 2015 Gallery permanent
Brockville, Display

The ife and Works Presented ih partnership with the August2015 Beecher Traveling
‘of William Butler Srockville Irish Cultural Society this House Exhibit
Yeats was a traveling display telling the (from the

lite story of Yeats. National

Library of

Ireland)

Fulford’sPatent A look at the Fulford patent September Brockla Temporary
Medicine Business _medicine empire, including Or. 2015, Public Display

10

Page 21 of 136

Willams” Pink Pils for Pale People. Terry
(Celebrating 125 years since Fulford
obtained the patent for the Pink
Pils)
Tand:capesand This joint collaboration between the September 4 Marianne Temporary
Legends:The Marianne van siffhout Gallery and October 16, van Exhibit
History of Artin the Brockville Public Library boasted 2015——Sifhout
Brockville artwork from the permanent Gallery
collection of the Brockville Public (se
Ubrary, Brockville Museum, as well Lawrence
as private collectors. College)
‘Stitching A display by the Artistic Stitchers September Beecher Temporary
Expressions showcasing their pieces of 2015; House Display
needlework
Holidays Back Home An exhibit exploring what the October 2015- Annex Temporary
holidays were like in Brockville January 2016 Exhibit
during the Second World War.

2015 was a busy year for developing displays and augmenting our exhibits, but much work was also
carried out in laying the foundation for 2016's demanding exhibition schedule. We look forward to the
‘exciting new projects awaiting usin 2016,

a

Page 22 of 136

Interpretation & Education

;pretation and Public Programs Coordin

2015 was another successful year for programming at the Brockville Museum. We introduced some
new initiatives (walking tours) and had continuing support for our perennial favourites (lecture series).
‘Overall, our net income was higher than 2014, tn total, we presented 214 programs -9 more than in
2014 - with 3 combined audience of 3288 people.

This report outines the highlights for 2015 as well as giving an outline ofthe types of programs we offer
to the community

Types of Programs

‘The Brockville Museum offers a variety of programs (each willbe addressed in turn inthis report). The
vast majority of programs are forthe older members of our community, In 205, aur audience numbers
‘were lower than in previous years, This is because our regular user groups, although smaller, make up
the majority ofthe programs we present. We classify the type of program inthe following categories:

“+ Hospital includes Artifact Therapy and BGH Day Hospice)

‘+ Nursing Homes (includes St. Lawrence Lodge, Sherwood Park Manor, Rosebridge Manor and
Mapleview Lodge)

‘+ Walking Tours (refers to our ‘Brackile’s Criminal Past’ weekly tours & group bookings)

‘+ School Groups {includes all school vst, of all ages, both on and off site)

‘+ Homeschool refers tothe Country and Community Stories program)

“+ Heritage Camps (includes March Break and aur in-house Summer Camp)

‘+ Seniors’ Residences (ths refers to Fox-Run and the CPHC Day Hospice program)

‘+ Speaking Engagements (refers to guest speaker events for local service clubs and interest
groups)

‘+ Lectures (includes our annual Adult Lecture Series and Author Talks)

“+ Birthday Parties (onsite events)

‘+ Youth Groups (includes Guides, Scouts, day camps, ete)

‘+ Tea With Amy (a new initiative to provide programming fee with admission’)

‘+Other (includes special events, of site group programming, workshop instruction, etc.)

‘+ Sleepovers (a program offered only to Guides and Scouts)

Hospitals, Nursing Homes and Seniors’ Residences
Representing 47.5% of the total numberof programs presented. They are an opportunity for expanding
the museum's collection (artifact donations as people downsize) and a way to bring the museum's
message tothe community. For the participants, it allows them to socialise and to share stories. Ofte,
‘his wll gv us ideas for new programs.

2

Page 23 of 136

‘We regulary present programs atthe Brockville General Hospital's Garden Street Site. There are two
groups that receive programming at this location: the BGH Day Hospice Program and Artifact Therapy.
‘The Day Hospice ladies participated in 7 programs in 2015,

‘The long-running Artifact Therapy program turned 28 years old in 2015. Over the course ofthe year, 37
diferent presentations were delivered at the site, This successful program, generously funded by the
Rotary Club of Brockuille, continues into 2016 with new topics developed to complement those that are
being re-used,

‘The presentations that are developed for the Artifact Therapy program are re-used for speaking

y
presented at Sherwood Park Manor and St. Lawrence Lodge in Brockile, Fox-Run-By-The-River near

‘engagements and monthly vst to local nursing homes and seniors! residences. Programs are regu

Gananoque, Rosebridge Manor near Jasper, Maple View Lodge near Athens and the Adult Day Program
run by Community and Primary Health Care (CPHC).

In all the nursing and retirement homes received 58 programs in 2015. Due to illnesses and outbreaks,
5 addtional programs were cancelled. This shows how popular these programs continue to be. They
‘also are an important steady year-round income forthe museum.

Homeschool
‘The Country and Community Stories program is specially designed for the local Homeschool group.
Every month, students come to the museum for a special program looking at the larger themes of
‘Canadian history and what was happening locally during that time. This program started in the 2010-
2011 school year and was so popular, there were two groups (older and younger) participating in 2011-
2012. In 2012-2013 students and families received their own presentation of The Ballad of D'Arcy
McGee and for 2013-2014, the program expanded once again to include 4 different ‘age’ groups.

In the 2014-2015 school year, we had lawer enrolment and only offered the Kindergarten - Grade 2 and
the Grade 6- Grade 8 sessions.

In the 2015-2016 school year, enrallment shifted to have the Grade 35 (STEPA) and Grade 6-8 (STEP 2)
offered every month

In al there were 17 homeschool sessions presented in 2015.

School Groups
‘School groups from as far away as Smiths Falls & Rockland participated in our programs this year, in
‘adlition to schools that are able to walk to the museum. In total this meant almost 386 children took
part in our programming in 201S: 2 smaller total than last year. Of these, there was an equal split in
school locations. & were Brockville schools and 8 were schools from outside of Brackvil

Surprisingly, it seems that renaming our First Nations history program fram Life on Turtle Island to
Unwritten Histories (to better describe the interpretive theme of the program) brought renewed
interest. In all, 5 sessions ofthis program were presented. 3 ofthese were presented offsite to classes
_ Cordick Education Centre and Maynard Public Schoo

Fr

Page 24 of 136

This year's seasonal exhibit “Holidays Back Home: Brockville in WWII" was not 2s well received by
teachers looking for December programming. It seems that to teach ‘traditional holidays,’ the WWII era
was not considered ‘old! enough. To compensate, we alko offered the Settler Games program.
Reactions from visitors to the exhibit were positive.

In total, 16 programs were presented in 2015 (this number refers to number of programs, nat classes.
ie. if two classes came together on a bus, it was counted as one program, not two). The programs
presented were: 5 for First Nations, 4 for Victorian Summer Games, 2 for Settler Games, 2 for Holiday
‘exhibit, and 2 for the GPS program Battlefield Brackil, Finally, an on-bus downtown tour was given to
«2 school group that was passing through after trip to Kingston,

Heritage Camps
In 2015 we once again offered March Break and Summer camps. However, it was decided that this
‘would be the final year of summer programming at the museum.

‘Our March Break program lacked at all sorts of stories. From telling stories, loakng at local history and
creating our own books, the 8-10 children that attended each day had alot of fun.

‘Our summer camps included 4 topics: The Circus, Hometown Heroes, Curtor fora Day and Soldiers of
the Stage. Our Summer Programming Assistant, Emily Tobin, created the activities for each of the
‘camps and ran the walking tours,

For the fist program, we learned all about the circus and put on a performance. Du

1g Hometown
Heroes, representatives from the police, fre and paramedic departments came to the museum = with
their vehicles! Our budding curators created a special case exhibit that was on display inthe Children’s
Room. Finally, our young ‘rockettes’ practiced ther skits and songs fora performance on the last day
of camp,

‘with low enrollment, and the impending opening of the Aquatarium, it was decided this would be our
last year offering summer programs at the museum. Instead, our summer student will be focussing
‘more onthe walking tours and other initiatives.

‘Speaking Engagements
‘Throughout the year, the museum is asked to address groups or service clubs. in 2015, there were 6 of
these speaking engagements for local church groups, historical societies and more. This isa great way
+0 promote upcaming exhibits and events as well as bulding community relations for the museum,

Lectures
‘Our largest adult eduction program isthe Annual Adult Lecture Series held every Tuesday in February
land the fist Tuesday of March, The Lecture series remains as popular as ever, bringing in 286 people
{or al6 lectures. This made the average attendance 48 people per lecture. Normally, we only offer S
lectures, but bringing Mark Peck all the way from Toronto meant that we added an evening lecture.
Sadly, it was not well-attended,

Fa

Page 25 of 136

Birthday Parties
Birthday party numbers were down in 2015. We are getting many requests, but we are unable to
‘accommodate partes on weekends inthe fallwinterspring. in all, we hosted 2 parties ths year.

Youth Groups & Sleepovers
Many other groups took part in programming this year which do not fit into our regular categories.
‘These include the Scouts (Cubs) and Girl Guides (Sparks) that visited for the Christmas program. We
hosted one group of Guides fora sleepover program this year

Finally, some of the Day Care and other Child Minding groups regularly schedule programs in the
‘summer. This year, groups from the YMCA summer camp participated in the Victorian Summer Games
program. Kampus Kids and the Presbyterian Church Youth Group came fora P.A. Day program.

In allwe hosted 1 sleepover and 6 other youth group programs in 2015,

‘Tea With Amy
This year we continued the value-added program called “Tea With Amy." On the second Thursday of
the month, we offer 45 minute presentation {free with admission) for anyone to attend. These are not
formal lectures; they are the same programs that were originally developed for Artfact Therapy. The
programs are more laid back and allow for questions, discussion and the sharing of stories. We
presented 10 of these programs in 2015 and attendance ranged from three to sixteen participants. This
ill continue into 2016 (with 3 hiatus during the Lecture Series).

Walking Tour
‘With ne formal walking tours being offered in Brackulle since Fulford stopped doing ghost walks, we
decided to fil the void. Running at 4:00 and 7:00 an Friday evenings, participants heard some of the
strange stories of Brockuille's Criminal Past. This was not just a reteling of sordid tales, the theme of the
program was to connect the development of Brockville with its connection tothe Counties Courthouse.

This initiative proved more successful than we imagined ~ much ofthis due to the enthusiasm shown by
Brackuille Tourism,

Including tours offered in September, we ran the tour 19 times. This included a private group tour for a
large group of youth from Ottawa. We only had to cancel one tour due to no audience. We di,
however, have to run a consecutive tour ene night because so many people showed up! This program
will continue in 2016 with the addition of some new stries.

other
In Apri, the ‘3 Brockville Soldiers at Vimy Ridge’ program returned to Encounters with Canada (3
program of the Historica-Dominion Institute) in Ottawa. This program brings 100 students from across
the country to Ottawa for a weet’s worth of themed sessions. The program we were asked to deliver
was for Vimy Ridge week, This archive-based session has been well-veceived and it was the filth year
we have presented this program. The cooperation wll continue into 2016.

Fr

Page 26 of 136

‘The Earth Day Summit, a program presented by the Environmental Education Network (of which the
‘museum isa member) was held at Landon Bay again this year. 80 grade 5 students from throughout the
FAB region attended. Once again we led the ‘All-Natural Department Store Hike’ looking at items
available inthe natural environment for the early European settlers. The hike was run 4 times that day

Summary
‘Overall, 2015 proved to be one of the busiest for programming since | started here in 2007. Our
programs were delivered with the help of museum staff and our wonderful volunteers. 3288 people
‘were in attendance for the many varied programs that we offer. In all, profit for education programs
was just over $11,900. This is slightly higher than in 2014. In general, we are delivering more programs
to smaller audiences. However, with the ‘Tea With Amy’ program and the walking tours, we are
bringing more people through our doors than we have in previous years.

‘Compared to the 2007 total of 147 programs, we see that our capacity for programming has increased
substantially over the past 8 years. Hopefully, ths trend will continue as people hear about the quality

programs that we offer to visitors of al ages at the Brockville Museum:

16

Page 27 of 136

Research

‘The Brockville Museum has a collection of newspaper clippings, books, directories and other items
which help provide background information when researching the citys pas. Ths resource is used to
assist in answering questions put to the Museum by members of the publi, in providing background
information for new exhibits and in preparing presentations to the public by staff. Staff members and
the volunteer researchers work together to complete these requests.

This year the Research Team welcomed volunteer Margaret Lawrence to assist with this effort. Her
considerable organizational sks, computer knowledge and general enthusiasm for Brockville’ past are
proving to be valuable assets as we endeavor to improve this sevice,

‘We received 101 research requests from the public this year. Information about the history of newly
purchased homes, facts about long dead relatives and locations of business from the past were once
‘again poplar topics. Requests about the sculptor, Marjorie Winslow, Gilmour's Grocery Store, the
Mormon Church in Brockville and the St. Lawrence Engine Company were a few of the specific topies
researched.

Many ofthe files are becoming large, unwieldy and time consuming to search. The research team has
been spending considerable time and effort dividing them into more manageable units. Another
initiative is to create a searchable index on the computer in order that the file containing the needed
information can be quickly identified. Weaning ourselves off a paper index isa slow process and many
_adelitional key words need tobe included inthe index before this is fully functional

New items, suitable forthe research files or library, are acquired frequently and placed appropriately by
the volunteers. Sometimes these items come as part of larger donations to the collection and
sometimes asa response o a research request when there isa mutual exchange of information.

‘The Museum Curator, Natalie Wood, informed the volunteer researchers just prior to the Christmas
break that the upstairs office area was to be reconfigured and thatthe library was to be moved. We
look forward to working in our new, more efficient space in 2016 and continuing to support Museum
staffas well s providing a service tothe public

Conservation
No significant conservation treatments were carried out in 2015, however, the Friends ofthe Brockville
Museum continued to support conservation efforts at the museum by purchasing archival and other
materials which safeguard the museum's diverse collection,

Fa

Page 28 of 136

Physical Plant
‘The Brockville Museum's physical plant includes a €.1820s hertage stone house and 2 1995 addition,
Each portion of the building carries its own set of unique characteristics and needs with regards to

In response to concerns over uncomfortably cold temperatures experienced inthe basement of Beecher
House, where the Leeds and Grenville Branch of the Ontario Genealogical Society meets, further
investigation was carried out in 2015. It was discovered that a valve was closed preventing any heat
from entering the area's duct work. Once opened, it seemed to relieve much of the problem (it was

therefore determined that a new furnace was na longer a priory).

[A cold winter followed by a freeze-thaw cycle lead to two significant problems early in the year: an
‘alarm on the emergency exit door malfunctioning (caused by water seeping into the door frame and
‘reczing) and a water leak in the lobby (caused by an ice dam). Anew emergency exit door was installed
in the summer and remedial work was caried out on the labby roof to help prevent a future issue.

During regular maintenance of our HVAC system in the spring, a small ga leak was discovered in an
‘exterior PC pipe. The pipe was replaced

‘While the gardeners were clearing weeds from our patio are (and attempting to re-set uneven stones),
they discovered a large hole under one section. A city crew came and filled in the hole.

{A toilet in the woman's washroom leaked over a weekend, significantly enough to drip into the
basement kitchen. Ultimately, there was enough water damage in the kitchen to require all the ceiling
tiles be replaced and new range purchased (water had gotten ina the old range and caused the circuit
board to malfunction),

12015 also saw us reopen discussions about the museum's need to enlarge its physical capacity either by
‘expansion or relocation. Board of Management members met with City executives to discuss ideas for
moving forward with such a proposal, but given the many competing projects curently being
undertaken by the City of Brockville, no resolutions were made. The Board of Management, however,
‘agreed that such discussions must continue

Capital projects undertaken in 2015 included exterior painting the board and batten), the instalation of
22 handrail at the museum's entrance, refinishing the office floors and painting the office wall.
Together, these projects refreshed the look and feel of the museum inside and out.

18

Page 29 of 136

Community
Respectfully submitted by Viktor Koczkowsk, Community Engagement

‘The museum's emphasis on visibility and engagement was reflected in a much-increased community
presence in 2015. In addition to new programs (such asthe highly successful walking tour) the museum
improved its media and on-line presence, reached out to a broader variety of community groups,
increased the museum's presence at various community events and partnered with a local business to

‘aise funds for the museum. The museum's spectrum of services and variety of programs indicative of
its responsiveness to local needs and requirements

ral

Hours of Operation
‘The museum's winter and summer regular hours of operation resulted in the museum being open to the
public on 288 days totalling 2020 hours during 2015,

‘+ Victoria Day to Labour Day: Monday-Saturday 10am-Spm & Sunday 1pm-Spm.
‘+ Labour Day to Vietria Day: Monday-Friday 10am-Spm.

User Groups
‘The folowing community groups called the Brockvile Museum home in 2015;

‘+ The Leeds & Grenvile Genealogical Society
© United Empire Loyalists

In addition, the following groups met regularly atthe Museum:

“+ AmtistieStichers
“+ Basket Weaving Guild
‘+ Creative Mondays

‘+ RCAFSabre Wing 450
“+ Seaway Ship Enthusiasts

All ofthese groups support the museum's activities and events. These community groups have chosen
the museum because ofits location, parking, accessibility, kitchen facilities, sound system, and most
importantly the many networking opportunities.

"pote that statis were not avalable fr the months of November and December, so based onthe monthly
average, the actually numberof website sors for 2015 would be around 7200

Fr

Page 30 of 136

Special Events
[As part ofits ongoing commitment to engaging its community, the museum ance again hosted a variety
fof programs, both onsite and offsite. In 2015, the following events were held at the museum (a
complete list of al special events, exhibits, and fund-raising event sinluded inthe append).

‘The folowing community events were held onsite:

‘+ February 16: Family Day

‘+ May 4: Dutch Remembrance Day

‘+ May 24 & May 25: Brocka & Thousand Islands Doors Open
‘+ September 25: Ontaia East British Home Child Day

In addition, members ofthe local community joined us forthe following ft ste event:
‘+ October 28: Bus tour tothe Beaver Hall Group exhibit a the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts

Volunteers
(Our volunteers continue to be vital to our suecess, not only with regards to the extensive amount of
programming that the museum undertakes, but also with respect to the curatorial and archiving duties
that are fundamental to the museum's ralzon d'etre and the day-to-day upkeep and maintenance of the
museum, Fortunately, the museum continues to retain avery sali base of volunteers

Volunteer areas of responsibilty at the Brockille Museum include the following:

‘+ Board of Management
‘© Collections Management

‘+Education Programming

+ Visitor Services

© Docents

+ Maintenance

+ Gardening

+ Fund Raising

+ Bakers

+ servers

‘+ Friends of the Brockville Museum Executive

Recruitment
‘The total number of active volunteers during 2015 stood at 95. Over the course of 2015, 16 new
volunteers (adult and student) were added to the roster, the majority of which were involved in visitor

‘These new recruits included 7 high-school students (3 co-op and 4 regular), most of wham completed
their volunteer requirements within the calendar year.

»

Page 31 of 136

For the past 15 yeors, clients of Career Services have been volunteering at the museum. The museum
presently has two volunteers from Career Services, one helping with maintenance and one who is
scanning images.

{An information session was held on November 17 for anyone interested in volunteering in 2 Visitor
services capacity for which fve individuals attended. A strong community presence, word-of-mouth,
and the museums website still seem tobe the most effective way of sustaining our volunteer baze.

Training
Recurring training sessions, particularly for the Open Drawer Project volunteers, continue to be
undertaken. The Administrative Assistant/Registrar conducted extensive training relating to the second
‘and third stages ofthe Open Drawer Project during 2015,

Recognition
‘The efforts of our volunteers were formally recognized atthe provincial lvel in a ceremony held at the
Brockville Golf and Country Club on June 26, 2015. Anniversary pins were distributed as part of the
Ministry of Cultures Volunteer Service Award program. Five museum volunteers were recognized at this

In a more social milieu, a catered volunteer luncheon was held an November 17, 2015 at the museum.
‘There were 48 volunteers in attendance.

Administration
‘The Cty Volunteer Committee was formed in 2013 to better coordinate volunteer efforts between city
departments as well as standardize polices and procedures. The committee had been trying to address
issues relating to police checks and parking, as well as creating a volunteer handbook, establishing a
better presence on the city’s website, and making recommendations to the city on how to better
recognize the city’s volunteers. With the committee's input, the city’s website has been updated to
‘make information about volunteering forthe cty more prominent,

‘The patkng issue was resolved with all museum volunteers receiving parking passes

‘The issue of police checks for volunteers has finally been resolved. Procedures with regard to new
volunteers have not changed ~ all new volunteers must submit a police check as er city policy. Upon
the advice of Human Resources, existing volunteers who have a police check or for those that have
never had a police check performed, are to submit @ “Declaration of Attestation” every three years
‘thereby swearing that they have had ne criminal convietions during that time period,

The City Volunteer Committees stil trying to resolve the other outstanding issues.

Hours
‘Our volunteer hours increased to 6,216 during 2015, an increase of 8.9% over the previous year. This
increase is due primarily to the efforts of the Open Drawer Project volunteers and other work on the
collection, the extensive work put into the Friends’ Garden Tour in June, andthe increase inthe number
of co-op students in 2015,

a

Page 32 of 136

‘The average number of hours committed by each volunteer has remained relatively consistent over the
‘years, and has averaged 62.3 hours over the last 6 years

‘Wark on the collection continues to make up the majority of the museum's volunteer eforts at 3207
hours oF 53.2% (with the Open Drawer project accounting for 2401 hours or 38.6% of those hours),
‘community {accounts for 2067 hours or 33.3%), with the remaining 13.5% of volunteer efforts being
taken up by education, physical plant and governance. These proportions are virtually identical to those
of 2014

‘Outside the usual volunteer activity, during 2015 two volunteers worked on spectal projects to refurbish
‘exhibit cases and undertake other carpentry work around the museum. For the second year museum
volunteers also participated in the “Community Clean-up city-wide event on May 2 with seven
volunteers showing up to help.

Outreach
‘The museum remains committed to reaching out to as many people as possible utilzing diverse means
such as direct advertising, television and radio appearances, public presentations, social media, and of
course, one-on-one conversations.

Television and Radio Appearances
During 2015 museum staff made 13 television appearances and 13 radio stints to promote museum
‘activities. While Cogeco and CFIR have been the focal points of our media presence, the presence of
OW has grown within the community andthe museum i increasing its presence there.

Print Media
‘The Recorder and Times, St. Lawrence EMC, and SNAP 1000 Islands gave the museum excellent
coverage over the course of 2015. The Recorder & Times profiled Viktor and his role at the museum in
its January 31st edition, while in March the Ottawa Citizen ran an artile showcasing the Brackvile
Museum and it cars.

Website Presence
‘The museum's web site continued to serve as a resource forthe public at large. The total number of
website vistors for 2015 was 6037 (note that statsties were not available for the months of November
‘and December, so based on the monthly average, the actualy number of website visitors for 2015
‘would be around 7200). This compares to 5988 web vist in 2014

[A major revamp of the museum's website was undertaken during 2035 with the site being simplified
land given a whole new look. Content was significantly revised to ensure that t not only reflected the
‘museums emphasis on vistors but als that it reflected the museum's care messaging and priorities.

In addition to our own website, the museum also published on 8 other website's online event calendars
including Brockville Tourism, SNAP 1000 Islands, EON, Cogeco, Recorder and Times, Frontenac Arch
Biosphere Reserve, 1000 Islands International Tourism Coun and the DBIA.

2

Page 33 of 136

Social Media
By the end of the year, we achieved almost 200 additional page likes to bring the total to S31. As
‘expected, most of our followers are fram Brockulle with South Augusta, Ottawa, Kingston and Toronto
being the top five locations of our fans. The amazing power of this medium also means that we have
{followers in Canada as well as 15 diferent countries,

Mid-year Facebook changed their algorithms, ths especially affected business pages. it meant that for @
‘few months we saw the views on our post drop dramatically. They began to rise and stabilise bythe end
of 2015,

‘The most viewed posts were those that had to do with familar landmarks and people. The most shared
‘and viewed post was for Con Darlings birthday. More than 16000 people saw that one post! Following.
that, TBT photos ofthe Royal Brock (3504) and summer heat wave (2450) were our highest views.

Most of our posts receive 100 or more views and are shared on ether sites lke SNAP and EON. In
return, we aso share their posts ~ especialy since their photos of events are often better than ours.

‘When the new website went lve in the later months of the year, we saw an increase in page likes that
‘were directed to our page from that web address. We attribute this to the button for Facebook on the
header of the new page.

‘One of the interesting trends we found with our page is that the demographic of our followers is exactly
‘the group we often lament nat being able to contact. Like last year, the largest group of followers to the
museum page are women between the ages of 35 and 44 (at 18%)

In 2016 we wil continue to keep our Facebook page updated regularly to showcase what's new around
the museum as well as showing some of the artifacts that are not on exhibit. In general, Facebook
remains a great way to advertise our events. In 2026, continuing to intersperse the events with things
that are of general interest remains a priority. We don't want it ust to be an ‘advertising’ page. itis
shown that people unlike your page if you spend too many post trying to sell ourself and nat enough
time giving your readers something of general interest.

Other outreach activities
During 2015 other pubic appearances included!

1+ booth at ribet
‘+ atable atthe August Downtown Sidewalk Sale

Partnerships
In August, the museum launched an initiative to better understand and ultimately co-ordinate the
‘activities of other local hertage-rlated organizations, including the Public Library, Heritage Brockille,
‘and the Leeds and Grenville Genealogical Society. The goal was to examine ways of better coordinating
‘our efforts with regard to providing services for researchers. This includes examining the nature of
research requests received by each organization, providing e2ch other with a summary of our respective
holdings and, where possible, examine ways of enhancing our individual holdings.

23

Page 34 of 136

‘The committee's fist initiative is the production of @ guide for researchers interested in Brockville’
history. This guide wil be available on-line and in hard copy and will describe the various institutions
that possess information relating to Brockville’ history, the strengths of their holdings, and the services
they can provide. The committee is hoping that twill be made available early 2016.

‘The Irish Cultural Society was once again an active partner with the Brockville Museum during 2015,
resulting in an exhibit and poetry reading dedicated tothe 150th anniversary ofthe birth of W. . Yeats.

‘hile not a formal partnership, the Remington Museum of Ogdensburg, NY, visited the Brockulle
"Museum during 2025 to examine our volunteer program as they were examining ways to revamp their
‘own volunteer program,

Incoming bus tours
Thirteen incoming bus tour reservations were received for the 2015 season, however three were
‘cancelled. Ten incoming bus tour groups were welcomed to the museum totaling 443 visitors. Of these
tours, five were museum tours, two were “tea and tours", and three were city bus tours. This was
increased from the eight tours received in the previous year. These bus tours brought in revenue of
$1,600,

Fa

Page 35 of 136

Human Resources

Staffing
‘The Brockville Museum has two permanent fulltime employees and twa permanent part-time
‘employees, additional contract staff are hired as funding permits (Le. Young Canada Works, weekend
students). We were aso very lucky to host three high school coop students in 2015.

2015 Staff Included

Curator/Director Natalie Wood
Interpretation and Public Program Coordinator Amy Mackie
‘Administrative Assstant/Registrar ‘Alison Dingledine
‘Community Engagement Officer Viktor Kaezkowskt
‘Summer Students Emily Tobin (Young Canada Works),
Ellen 0’Dair (Canada Summer Jobs)
‘Weekend Students ‘Mallory Philips
Cole Pettum
‘Co-op Students ‘Alex L (St. Mary Winter/Spring 2015)
shames J. (St. Mary Fall 2015)
Lea R (South Grervill Fall 2015)

In 2014 we updated the job descriptions for most staff, leaving just that of the Curator/Director to be
updated in 2015. The new job description for the Curator/Director was approved by the board of
‘management in May, 2015 (please ee appendix

‘One of the priorities identified in 2024 with regards to human resources, was the need to have a fll.
time registrar. This need was partially achieved when the duties ofa registrar were added tothe duties
‘ofthe clerk in 2014 withthe creation of the position “Administrative Assstant/Registrar”. However, this,
did not address the need for fulltime hours. In 2015, the Friends ofthe Brockville Museum helped to
increase the hours of this position witha contribution to the Open Drawer Project. When preparing the
2016 budget, we prepared 2 proposal to Council asking to make this position ful
‘approved, making the postion of Administrative Assistant/Registrar permanent fulltime effective 2016.

ime. Council

Professional Development
‘Thanks to a renewed commitment from City Hall to the museum's professional development budget,
museum staff are able to seek out new learning opportunities. In 2035, the Interpretation and Public
Program Coordinator was able to attend the international Interpretation Conference held in Montreal as
well 2: continue working on her Certificate in Museum Studies by completing the “Artifacts” course
Additionally, both the Interpretation and Public Program Coordinator and the Curator/Director
participated in the University of Leicesters on-line “Future Learn” program: “Gehind the Scenes of the
21° Century Museum

In addition to these museum-related training opportunities, the Curator/Director also took part in
Provincially: mandated Accessibilty training provided by the City of Brocklle on “Creating Accessible
Documents”

Fy

Appendix

2015 General Ledger
exhibit Plan

2015 Event Listing

New Curator/Director lob Description
Statistics Chart

‘Chronology of Events (1970-2015)
Inthe News

2015 Monitor Newsletters

Page 36 of 136

6

= we wee or mec nason
a ws 008 . sun oig anon eu
eo ws: wo ‘ suo wnanen sane
ow sar cons . ro vce umeenn sect
« co 08 o aa wpa nna enon ese,
™ ‘ssc . ‘sean souo secon stuce
mss wo ‘ un wr wnonne sse
aw wuz 8 sore supnn 9 seen nono sone,
or a susbong nono nae
co 0 . a8 sumseg 9 sob nnn svaee
we cnser . eur sare somes ¥ seer wnonen scone
Le RN ee OT Lee RC
cai
ee 20 end


Exhibit Plan

Page 38 of 136

“Topie/Theme/Title Datels) Location Type
Maden Brockille: Philips Cables | Tnstalled August 2013 Upper Gallery| Semi
permanent

‘Made in Brockville: Da ‘August 2013-May 2015 | Upper Gallery_| Tempora

Hat Exhibit (Remodeled) Installed December 2013 | Upper Gallery_| Permanent

‘Wartime Photos of Col. Curry | November 2014-September | Annex Temporary

(WW! anniversary theme) 2015

‘50 Years ofthe Flag February 2015-August 2015 | Beecher Temporary
House

‘Made in Brockville: various Installed June 2015 Upper Gallery | Permanent

products

‘Made in Brockville: Automatie | Installed june 2015 Upper Gallery | Semi

Electric permanent

The Life and Works of Willam | August 2015 Beecher Traveling

Butler Yeats House

{Wational Library of ireland

Brockville ish Cultural Society)

‘Stitching Expressions September 2015 Beecher Temporary

(titi sttchers) House

Holidays on the Home Front | October 2015-January 2016 | Annex Temporary

{(WWil anniversary theme)

River and Rail ‘Open February 15,2016 | Beecher Permanent

(Phase I: Rall) House

‘Seeds in Disguise February 5, 2016 May 18, | Annex Traveling

(Rom) 2o15

People of Brockile (Open May 4, 2016, Beecher Permanent
House (rea)

‘Ontario's Sporting Past, Tuy September 18, 2016 | Annex Traveling

(Archives of Ontario)

River and Ral TnstallSeptember 2016 | Beecher Permanent

(Phase i: River) House

Barn Raising Project September 20-October14 | Annex Traveling

(Simcoe County Museum aos

Brockville Rug Hookers Guild)

How Brockville Celebrated the | January 4, 2017-December | Annex Temporary

Centennial 30,2017

Made in Brodkillethe story of | Install Spring 2017 Upper Gallery | Permanent

‘Smart's (Remodelled)

River and Ral install Fal 2007 Beecher Permanent

(Phase il: Block House & Tunnel) House (Hal)

Ice Storm Remembered January 2018 ‘Annex Tempora

TaD. ‘March-October 2018 ‘Annex Tempora

Kid's Room Remodeled) Summer 2018 Beecher Permanent

‘Loyalists & Other Immigrant House

Stories”

Ey

2015 Event Listing

‘Thursday, tanuary 8,2 pom
“Tea with Ary

‘Tuesday, February 3,10 a.m. -12 noon

“Tuesday, February 10, 10a.m.-12.n00n

Saturday, February 14, 0am. —12-n00n
Friends Aut

february
FlagEehbit—st_Alban’s Room

Monday February 16
Fal Oay

‘Tuesday, February 17, 10am. -12.n00n

“Tuesday, February 26, 9:30 am.-11:30a.m,

‘Tuesday, March 3,10 .m.-12 noon

‘Thursday, April 9,2 pm.
“Te with Ary

Monday, Apel 27 unl Friday May 8, 10... ~5 pm
Annual Book sae

“Thurday, May 14,2 p.m,
"Tea with Ary": “Alaura” Department Store

May23ed and 24th
Deors Open ree admission and behind the scenes tours)

“Thureday, sue 12,2 pm.
"ea with Amy" Viktor wll present “Views of Blocthouse sland”

une 27" 828:
“tldden Gardens of Brockville” Garden Tour Friends)

Fridays in uly & August @ dpm & 7pm
"Brokle's Criminal Pat” hstoical walking tours presented bythe Broce Museum.

‘Thursday, uly 9,2 pom
"Tea with Army" 1000 lands Tour cra 1910,

Page 39 of 136

28

Page 40 of 136

August
‘Yeats Exhibit, presented in partnership with thers Cultura Society {in Beecher House}

‘Thursday, August 13,2 pin.
"tea with Amy

September
[iste suitchers'lspla of reatwe works a Beecher House

‘Thursday, September 10, 2pm.
"Tea with ary

Friday, September 18,12 noon ~5 pam. & St. Sept. 19,19.m,~2 p.m.
‘Annual lent Auction

Saturday, September 26
British Home chia Day at the Brocklle Museum

‘Thursday, October 8,2 pm.
"tea with Amy”

‘october 28
Bus tour to Musee des beaux arts in Montreal to see exhib on the Beaver Hall group

November TO
‘Opening af “The War at home” inthe annex

‘Thursday, November 12,2 p.m,
"tea with Amy

Friday, November 27”
‘Annual "aking a Pat” Beer Tasting Event presented bythe Friends of the Brocklle Museum

‘Thursday, December 10,2 pam.
"Teawith Amy": Christmas theme

30

Page 41 of 136

Curator/Director Job Description

Brockville Museum __Job Description

20150608 | Index Number
Museum - 01

‘Subject Job Description — CuratoriDirector (35 hoursiweek)

Responsible Authority: ‘Chairman, Museum Board
Approval Authority Board of Directors, Museum Board
Date First Approved: 08-June-2015,

Date Last Reviewed: 08-February -2015

Mandatory Review Date: 08-June-2020

GENERAL

ACCOUNTABILITY

‘The Brockville Museum Curator/Director will be responsible
for the overall operation and administration of the Brockville
Museum in keeping with museum standards as set out by
the Ontario Ministry of Tourism, Culture and Sport.
Reporting to the Museum Board of Management, the
CuratoriDirector will ensure that the museum provides a
relevant and engaging visitor experience as well as a secure
repository for objects relating to the community's history.

‘The CuratoriDirector will ensure that the museum's
mandate, messages, and goals are effectively developed,
promoted and communicated through all areas of museum
operations:

REPRESENTATIVE
DUTIES.
Governance and Human Resources:
+ Work closely with the Board to develop and implement plans and policies
that reflect the needs of visitors, the community and the collection
+ Liaise with City of Brockville Administration to nurture communication,
foster support and promote partnerships
+ Carry-out the recruitment and selection of staff with participation from the
Board and the City of Brockville's Human Resources Department (when
appropriate)
+ Manage the orientation, training and performance of staff and volunteers

+ Provide leadership that fosters a safe, respectful, collaborative and

a

Page 42 of 136

creative work environment for staff and volunteers
Financ
+ Manage the Museum's operating budget and ensure that itis
realistic, achievable, and consistent with museum and municipal plans
+ Seek and prepare grant application for special projects, stating
land other activities
+ Work with the Board to raise adequate funds to balance the budget
and meet costs of special projects and other initiatives

Education and Interpretation:
+ Provide direction on, and evaluation of, Museum educational and public
programs
+ Develop and manage a comprehensive schedule of changing temporary
land permanent exhibitions
+ Carry-out research to support educational programs and exhibitions

Collections and Conservation:

+ Supervise all aspects of collections management, including
documentation and conservation
+ Work with the Collection Committee to acquire new objects and to

carryout deaccessioning according to Museum policies, professional
standards, and ethics

+ Liaise with donors and community members to facilitate donations.

+ Provide education to the public about Museum collection management
Practices

+ Coordinate public access to archival information

+ Practise preventative conservation in caring for the collection by

maintaining acceptable storage and environmental conditions and
‘ensuring that safe care and handling methods are followed

+ Ensure the long-term conservation and security of the collection
‘Community:
+ Cultivate an environment of superior customer service and Museum
‘excellence in order to provide a quality visitor experience
+ Serve as the Museum's primary spokesperson
+ Promote a strong and productive relationship between the Museum and
the community
+ Liaise regularly with the Friends of the Brockville Museum
+ Foster relationships with other like-minded institutions locally and

regionally as well as with municipal and provincial representatives in order
to advance the interests of the Museum

Physical Plant:
+ Provide a safe environment for visitors, volunteers and staff
+ Oversee building maintenance and grounds keeping activities
+ Make appropriate tools, training and supplies available to staff and
volunteers

+ Ensure that the Museum adheres to a current emergency preparedness

2

Page 43 of 136

plan
‘QUALIFICATIONS

A post-secondary degree in related field such as Museum
Management and Curatorship or Applied Museum Studies
with several years of related experience.

‘A demonstrated ability, appreciation and commitment to
programming that engages the public. Strong fiscal
management and supervisory skills, superior written
‘communication skills and grant writing experience. Excellent
time management skills, and the ability to manage multiple
tasks. Significant experience working in a team environment
and employing aesthetic judgement abilities.

Note: The foregoing is intended to outline the general description of duties and
responsibilities for this position. It is not intended nor should it be interpreted as
‘a complete description. The City of Brockville reserves the right to amend this,
position description at any time provided that such change does not represent a
‘substantive change in the purpose or essential nature of the position

2

Page 44 of 136

Statistics Chart

SS a
fas — face — see ce ae
a a OS [ee — oe Yar
— ee a
ee er [a
[se st ort 2 C3

a ca 73 i
a
[=
ac
2
aod
[sr

sense ONE,
‘oust STO

24

Page 45 of 136

Chronology of Events
1970 Re-establishment of the Brockville é& District Historical Society with the
stated intent to establish a permanent museum.

1972 First summer museum set up by the Museum Committee of the Brockville
& District Historical Society. Located at the Catholic Centre, Court House
Square.

1973 Second summer museum set up in the old yacht club building on Block
House Island,

1974 ‘Summer museum located at 24 Home Street attached to the oldest stone

home in Brockville. Both properties slated for demolition, therefore, not
considered as a permanent home.

1975 Negotiation by Museum Committee for a permanent building. Victoria
School seems a strong possibility. Permanent collection placed in storage
in this building,

1977 Victoria School sold to another bidder. Central Canada Coal Co. property
becomes available. Beecher House is main building on this property
Purchased by the City of Brockville for the purpose of establishing a
museum. Historical Society contributes $12,000 to purchase price.
Brockville Museum Board of Management established under the Ontatio
Museum Act
First meeting of the Brockville Museum Board as established By-Laws
181-77 and 59-77 of the Corporation of the City of Brockville.

1978 Museum Board commissions feasibility study for the conversion of
Beecher House into the Brockville Museum,

1980 Feasibility study completed.
Summer museum established in Cameron's Mill, Sheridan Mews as
Beecher House is still occupied by Central Canada Coal as tenants

1981 Basic retrofitting of main floor of Beecher House for use as gallery space.
June 21%, 1981 - Official Opening of the Brockville Museum.
First full-time professional Director appointed
Brockville Museum Statement of Purpose developed.

1982 Brockville's Sesquicentennial, Celebration of Brockville’s incorporation in
Collection policy and procedure established.

Fe

1983

1984

1985

1986

1987

1988

Page 46 of 136

Continued repair, renovations to Museum building,

Brockville Museum Master Plan completed under Community
Development Program of the Federal Governments Archaeological dig in
1815 section of Beecher House. Name of the Museum enlarged to clarify
unique mandate. The Brockville Museum, a Museum of Social History (In
practice, however, this name has not been used nor has this aspect of the
Museum been clearly recognized or developed),

Exhibit policy established.

Staff training policy established.

New position established. First part-time Museum Assistant hired to,
develop extension develop extension and education programs.

First permanent gallery for local history mounted.

Documentary photograph project for collection,

Research policy established,

Brockville Museum is open year round.

Renovation to non-public space; small lab space, kitchen and new general
office created

Membership plan developed for the Museum.

Archives established as separate collection.

Environmental control renovations completed.
Two heat pump systems installed, interior magnetic storm windows
installed.

New Director appointed.

Education and Interpretation policy established,

‘Computer and new office equipment donated by the Historical Society

Museum membership established.
Interior decorating /upgrading temporary galleries
Planning for renovation to permanent gallery.

Attempt to set up ‘Friends of the Brockville Museum’
Drainage project and renovations to cl815 basement to be used as a
programming area.

Planning for Brockville Railway Tunnel Historic Site to be administered
by the Brockville Museum,

Museum Caboose open.

36

1989

1990

1091

1992

1993

1994

1995

1996

1997

Page 47 of 136

New Director hired October, 1989.
Historical Society gives Museum buggy made by Canada Carriage
‘Company.

Drainage project completed

Annual report compiled.

Policies reviewed, Fundraising Policy prepared.
City Capital commitment over, now maintenance.
‘Canada World Youth at Museum.

Temporary exhibits continue,

Initiated Long Term Planning.

Raffles/ Yard Sales begin as Fundraiser.
New exhibit in permanent gallery.

Section 25 Grant - Photographer, Archivist, Oral History.
Painting exterior, 1840 section,

Director attends Planning Workshop.

Video: Brockville, Where the “Past is Present”
Planning started for the establishment of a Friends’ group

Roof and masonry repairs.
New Tunnel exhibit.

Incorporation of Friends of the Brockville Museum emphasis on
Fundraising in 1993 - two raffles, hamburger sales , Pennies for the Past
Storage at crisis level.

Increased number of In-house programs.
Proposals by the Strategic Planning Committee for construction of an
addition,

Produced T.V. Show for Cable 10 It's About Time”.

New addition completed. Official Opening Saturday, October 21”.
Re-location of archival and 3-dimensional artifacts to new building,

Significant growth in volunteer core with Volunteer Guild being formed,
‘Summer student producing Walking Tour pamphlet ‘Arowred The Town’
Increased activity of Friends of the Brockville Museum including the
administration of membership.

‘Change in staffing to one full-time Director, part-time Administrative
Assistant, part-time Volunteer/Special Events Co-ordinator, as well as

7

1998

1999

2000

Page 48 of 136

part-time Education Co-ordinator.
‘Summer student designed Museum Web page with cross reference to
Genealogical Society.

Children’s short stories written about Historical Brockville entitled
“Emma's Journey Into Brockville's Past”

Change in staff designation from Volunteer/Special Events Co-ordinator
and Education Co-ordinator to Museum Assistant.

‘Cemetery Tours held each week (Monday) during summer months.
Summer student set up River history research and developed education,
program.

Policies reviewed and revised.

Storage areas re-organized,

Tourism Brockville Line installed.

Museum participated in “Job Connect Program’ in co-operation with St.
Lawrence College. This student began entry of archival material on
computer.

Two research students with‘ Youth Services Canada’ were stationed at The
Brockville Museum,

‘Summer student completed seven oral histories of Canadian War Brides.
Exhibit Committee formed.

MAP Grant assisted with the expenses incurred on window restoration
in Beecher House. Students enrolled in the Heritage Restoration
Program at Algonquin College made this project possible.

The largest special event of the year was Halloween Fright Night which
brought 1500 people.

‘Cataloguing team has all artifacts catalogued to date.

The new year started with a record number of people attending the
Mayors New Year's Levee.

Our summer student achieved! a great deal in a very short time. He
designed a Brockville Museum Web Page for children and carried the
theme into a hands-on component for children visiting the museum.
Algonquin College students completed their restoration of windows in the
1845 section of Beecher House.

‘A new shingled roof was put on the back section of Beecher House.

Four Queen’s University students chose the Brockville Museum to study
‘our education services

This year the Halloween Fright Night brought 1200 people.

Retired Judge John Matheson spoke to over 100 Grade 5 students during
the Flag Day Celebration

38

Page 49 of 136

2001 Marked the ‘20% Anniversary’ of the Brockville Museum. Part of the
Celebration was the unveiling of the ‘Briscoe Car’ by the Brockville
Industrial Heritage Foundation.

Pine floors in Beecher House were restored.

The recording of military plaques, monuments, cairns, ete. was started.
Due to the closure of Fulford Home, changes to the Psychiatric Hospital
nd Public Utilities, the collection expanded a great deal.

A Co-op program student from B.C. & V.S,, Christopher Birtch, made a
valuable contribution and in turn, he learned many marketable skills.
Museum Director, requested by the Ontario Museum Association, was a
‘guest speaker at the Annual Conference.

2002 With the closing of S.C. (Sanmina), the moving of the Recorder and
Times to their new building and with the numerous donations of artifacts
and archival material, storage areas are becoming cramped,

The volunteer Garden Committee was duly recognized for their hard
work by winning the ‘Communities In Bloom’ Award for the best public
building gardens.

The first ‘Doors Open Ontario’ was held and was considered a great success
‘with over 3000 visits.

Almost new exhibit cases were donated by S. CL

The sign on the front lawn, a gift from the Friends, was designed by Keith
Heine of Heritage Signs.

Two new furnaces installed in Beecher House.

Education Co-ordinator position became full time for 10 months.

Procter and Gamble completed gardening, carpentry work, painting,
cleaning, etc. during “The Day of Caring.

Meetings held with Ontario Archivist, Tom Belton, to begin the work in
City Hall on the Records management/ Archival Collection.

Hosted an Ontario Museum Association workshop for the ministry of
‘Culture Standards for Community Museums in Ontario.

2003 The return of the 1871 Fire Pumper from Gravenhurst was met with a
‘great deal of excitement.
The beautifully restored Briscoe car was officially donated by the
Industrial Heritage Foundation,
The Community In Bloom again recognized the museum for the flower
beds, shrubs and trees that adorn the museum.
The museum joined with other groups to host the first Brock Days
Festival
This was the second year for Doors Open Ontario. Over 3,000 people
attended,
The 1945 Brockville Fire truck was put in the museum storage unit along,

Fr

Page 50 of 136

with the horse-drawn carriage.

2008 The museum participated in the Downtown Santa Claus parade,
Multicultural Festival, Brock Days and Doors Open Ontario.
Adult lecture series was well received. Special guest speaker, Flora
Macdonald drew a large crowd.
The Collection Committee was pleased to receive a large collection of |.
H_ Lindsay items, marriage certificate, photos, paintings, decorative box
tonamea few.
Work continues with Dr. Glenn Lockwood and the History Book
‘Committee in producing the ‘History of Brockville’.
The Friends of the Brockville Museum and the Brockville Community
Foundation have made it possible for people to make bequests to the
museum, donate real estate, stocks and bonds, cash, life insurance
policies, art, ete

2005 Another successful House and Garden Tour sponsored by the Friends of
the Brockville Museum.
The museum participated in the Santa Claus Parade, Multicultural
Festival, Mayor's Walk, Brock Days and Doors Open Ontario.
Thanks to the Brockville Community Foundation, the new Gallery
Theatre was opened,
TThe garden sprinkler system was made possible by the generous donation
of Procter and Gamble.
Artist Studio Guild Show and Sale brought 514 people to the museum,
40% Anniversary of the birth of the Canadian Flag was held at the Art
Centre for local school children. Excellent news coverage.
Local fire department took the fire pumper to the 1000 Islands Mall for
Fire Prevention Week

2006 The year was marked with several events celebrating the 25! Anniversary
of the Brockville Museum. A large blue and gold banner was mounted on
the north wall forall to see. Staff and volunteers started to think seriously
of future physical growth and notes were made under the title ‘Securing
the Future’. A sub-committee of the Board of Management was formed to
begin investigating the opportunities for physical growth.

2007 This year the digitizing ofthe collection began. Working with the city MIS
department staff and volunteers purchased new computers and set up the
new program. ‘The front foyer saw a marked improvement with a new
desk, allowing for better traffic flow and giving a more professional and
‘welcoming appearance. The introduction of the Young. Interpreters
Program has given young students an important role in the museum

0

Page 51 of 136

Acting as guides during Doors Open Ontario, performing puppet plays
for youngsters, helping with summer programming are just a few of the
tasks undertaken, One of the most significant changes in 2007 was the
formation of a steering committee, to explore future physical expansion.

2008 Thanks to the “Canadian Museum Association” ~ “Young Canada Works!
grant the museum was able to hire a student to write fifteen oral histories,
and prepare them for publishing. The gardens surrounding the museum
‘were exceptionally beautiful this year thanks to volunteers, assisted by the
Leeds and Grenville Brain Injury Group. The Brockville Farmers Market,
the Downtown Business Improvement Association and the museum
presented “Christmas In Downtown Brockville” with most activities
taking place at the museum including the indoor market which bought
758 people over three weekends.

The first ‘Family Day’ event was held and was very successful
The military mural was officially unveiled on May 24, Doors Open
Ontario, event

2009 The Second oral history book “Brockville Voices Book II” was published,
From. this came the creation of an oral history committee - a group of
volunteers dedicated to the collection of these all important stories of
Brockville's past.

Moving the collection in the off-site storage unit to another site went very
smoothly. The 1945 fire truck was not a problem for the two firemen.

2010 The proposed developments for the Henry and Water Street areas
surrounding the Brockville Museum raised concerns over the possible loss
of the Henry Street parking lot. Museum staff completed a parking lot
report which was sent to the Mayor, Council, CEO, Planning Department,
Economic Development and the museum board. Also of concern is the
future expansion of the museum. A museum consultant, Fiona Graham of
Goldsmith Borgal and Company Ltd. was hired to review the needs
assessment completed by staff and volunteers. She made a site visit and
produced an expansion study. Three possible options for expansion of the
Henry Street site were given.

‘Once again the museum educator delivered a very interesting lecture
series and annual events such as Flag Day, Doors Open Ontario and the
Multicultural Festival were well attended. An outgoing bus trip took place
to the Railway Museum in Quebec. The coach was full, it was a beautiful
day and requests for further trips such as this were received.

On July 8 a banquet was held inside the Brockville Railway Tunnel to
celebrate the anniversary of the tunnel. This event was a tremendous
success. The Friends of the Brockville Museum sponsored this event,

a

Page 52 of 136

donations from VIA Rail and CN helped to the cover the costs, the food
and beverage was representative of 1860 and was beautifully presented.
Most participants were in costume and musicians performed at the
entrance of the tunnel. The large white tent, the white linens, crystal, china
and flowers all added to the ambience.

A new furnace was installed and part of the roof on the 1995 addition was
replaced. ‘The gardens were once again a beautiful site for residents and
tourists to enjoy thanks to museum volunteers.

Two very large archival collections were received. The McCormick
shipping and the lan Inniss photography collections were welcome
additions however an enormous amount of work and considerable dollars.
‘were needed to even begin sorting, cataloguing, storing and promoting,
‘Once again the Brockville Farmers Market held their indoor Christmas
Market at the museum during the weekends in November and December.

2011 ‘One of the major concerns this year was the lack of any development on
the west side of Henry Street, opposite the museum. A steel fence
surrounds a very large pit which continues to be filled with green water.
Visitors very naturally want to know what is to be built and local
residents want to know ‘when’. The developer, along with the City
Planner and the Fire Chief, visited the museum and made
recommendations for changes to the entrance of the museum. The
developer has offered to pay for the work which is needed. This will be
completed when construction begins on the proposed condominium,
Volunteers and staff recognized the need for a technology committee. A
member of the City MIS department agreed to be on this committee as an
investigation into new management systems continues.
Community/Volunteer Co-ordinator started a new group for ‘shipping,
enthusiasts’. This was prompted by the acceptance of the ‘McCormick
Collection’. Another example of how artifacts and archival materials are
used to create public interest
2011 marked the museum's 30% Anniversary. A. special booklet was
designed for distribution to restaurants, hotels/motels, and for the
museum visitors. Local merchants with whom the museum has been
doing business, placed paid ads in the booklet along with messages from
Mayor David Henderson, Senator Robert Runciman, MP Gord Brown and
MPP Steve Clark.

2012 In 2012 we were concerned with the lack of development on the west side
‘of Henry Street. Finally, in November a sales office was completed and
sale of the proposed condominiums has begun. The large steel fence is
still on the side of the street but more care has been taken in ensuring it
does not intrude onto the roadway.

2

Page 58 of 136

Working with Save Ontario Shipwrecks, the museum was able to obtain a
month of amnesty from the Ministry of Tourism, Culture and Sport for the
acceptance of marine artifacts. This was a most interesting project,
providing Brockville Museum staff and Save Ontario Shipwrecks
volunteers the opportunity to work together and to realize the two
organizations are interested in preserving and interpreting our past even
though we come to the subject from different areas.

Several new fund raising initiates proved to be profitable, entertaining and,
fun, These include the bus tour to Wolfe Island, the boat cruise to
Cornwall, a great book sale and a pizza night at Boston Pizza just to name
afew.

2013 After 27 years with the Brockville Museum, Bonnie Burke retired and
Natalie Wood was hired as the new Curator/Director.
There was still no development on the condominium slated for the west
Side of Henry Street. In fact, the “Wayfare” project, as it is known, was
put on “long-term” hold in December. The future of the site is unknown,
Thanks to the tremendous talent and dedication of volunteers the
museum's collection of film was digitized. Some of the footage was
tured into a nearly two hour feature film, “Brockville’s Reel Heritage:
(Our City on Film 1920-1980”. The film debuted at the Brockville Arts
Centre on November 2%! to a crowd of nearly 400. The film was then
made available for sale on DVD.
The roof on Beech House (c.1840 portion) was replaced with shingles
‘matching those on the 1995 addition.

2014 “Open Drawer” Project was officially launched, with over 5,000 three
dimensional objects being entered into the new MINISIS online catalogue
(project paid for by Ontario Trillium Foundation Grant and significant
contribution by the Friends of the Brockville Museum),
Museum Clerk/Typist, Cathy Bigalow retired from the museum after
nearly thirty years. Job description re-evaluated.
Sprinkler system in the garden was removed and the stone retaining wall
at the front of Beecher House was re-pointed

2015 Web page redesigned, along with new rack cards and exterior signage
Launched the new initiative, “Brockville's Criminal Past" Historical Walk
Tour to much success.
The exterior board and batten sections of the 1995 addition received a new
paint colour.
Office area was painted and the floors refinished
Administrative Assistant/ Registrar position becomes full-time (effective
2016)

a

Page 54 of 136

In the News

St, Lawrence News ‘aa @
eed

Hero to be honoured at museum ceremony

esa hf fein Wired ema Ti et ee
sors Rae B Moon, the Royal Caran Si Fre plot panied 21835 Pras ue oe
‘Misa eoto a ete own Holand Sorel sie whe

Bom ie Brockville n 1912 Movin atended Doaghs fequcid by Caan semen. At ech ection Be pays
‘ign Vio Public Sb 6 wel as BrackvileCOk. 1940 bgbund musi of anering eter
‘eptnstiteHe hd dems becoming acter, bathe “ssh beau manent see amopone we
‘Site ePaper

a

Page 55 of 136

{ Hi ;

ui

7 a

il HH

PPA

4s

Page 56 of 136


Page 57 of 136

Tae Une

Brockville celebrates
its automotive heritage

‘emg notbe until summer that Brockilatakesflladrastage its setingty the
‘Sc Lawrence River bt Petr hone tnd leno mals March vii wore

a

Page 58 of 136

8

Page 59 of 136

MROCKVILE RECORDER ANDES SATURDAY UNE, 2018

woman Feist Boies opener

Public glimpses into private gardens

9

Page 60 of 136

IEDE ABQUIBYEATS
N : "a

Page 61 of 136

Sietermeeenney eee arten meer a
ieaianneemeetmnrinemteaseae

ge erpeeyae,

Feo — inept oat mer ain

So ae sree eee

{hippie When th oa

Sime

Sa

st

Page 62 of 136

ee a
ee BROCKVILLE RECORDER AND |

TERI Vi Fcc abo ting he Boch mmf es

History all about
interest in life

2

South Grenville chamber celebrates its best PAGE A2
THE

option for
downtown

Victory parades abound! or:

Page 68 of 136

Page 64 of 136

2015 Monitor Newsletters

sa

Page 65 of 136

The Monitor

Volume 31, Issue 1: Winter 2015

Happy New Year!

2014 was a spectacular year for the Brockville
Museum. ‘Thanks to a tremendous amount of
support from the Friends of the Brockville
Museum and a huge army of volunteers, a great
deal of progress was made. Perhaps the greatest
achievement is the Open Drawer Project. After
years of fundraising and planning the project
really got underway this year. We are pleased to
announce that all of the museum's three-
dimensional artifacts have now been entered into
‘our electronic database! It was a very Merry
Christmas indeed! In the new year, volunteers

Tn this issue:
Mest the Brockville Museum Staf
From the Photographic Archives.
Deaccessioning is nota dirty word,
Lecture Series Announced.

Grant News

What is Tea with Amy?.
Spotlight on Volunteers.
RU. Lindsay

2015 Events

will be trained on handling and cataloguing our
archival documents. In the meantime, the online
version of the database is up and running,
there may still be a few typos and we don't have
pictures for everything yet, but the information is
ut there now! If you'd like to sneak a peek (and
“open a drawer” so to speak), visit our website
and follow the link under “Collections”. A huge
thank you goes out to the Friends, the Ontario
Trillium Foundation and the many volunteers
who made this project possible.

Submited by NW.


Page 66 of 136

Introductions may be in order...
here's some stuff you may not have known about your museum staff

TL: Amy Mackie, Viktor Kaczkowsk, Alison Dingledine
and Natalie Wood.

The Brockville Museum has a dynamic team of
four: Natalie Wood (Director/Curator) and Amy
Mackie (Interpretation and Public Program
Coordinator), who are both full-time, and Viktor
Kaczkowski (Community Engagement Officer)
and Alison Dingledline (Museum Administrative
and Collections Assistant), who are both part
time. All of us are 100% committed to what the
museum does and the role it plays in our
community. We all share a love of history and
the world around us and are passionate about
sharing Brockville's fascinating past with others.

Natalie has been with the Brockville Museum
since early 2013. Before that, she spent five
years learning more about flour and wheat than
anyone should know in a lifetime while
managing the Old Stone Mill National Historic
Site in Delta. Her previous museum experience
also includes the McLachlan Woodworking
Museum, the Pump House Steam Museum and
the Marine Museum of the Great Lakes in
Kingston. Natalie was inspired to pursue a
museum career after she attended a National
Heritage Fair in sixth grade, representing her
class project in New Brunswick. She later
obtained a degree in History and a Certificate in
Museum Studies, At the Brockville Museum she

is ultimately responsible for the overall
operation and administration of the museum
and liaises with the museum's Board of
Management, City Hall, and Friends of the
Brockville Museum, She loves that every day at

a community museum offers something
different, Natalie spends her free time
volunteering with the Ontario Trillium

Foundation, travelling, and hiking. She recently
moved to Brockville and adopted a black lab
puppy which is keeping her plenty busy.

Amy unknowingly began her museum training
at age nine as a costumed volunteer at Fort
Wellington in Prescott. From there, volunteer
positions at Upper Canada Village, Homewood
Museum and the Forwarder's Museum filled her
summers and piqued her interest in history. She
spent 11 years at Charleston Lake Provincial
Park as a member of the Natural Heritage
Education staff. She remains a contributing
naturalist for Ontario Parks’ many province:
wide monitoring programs and continues to
havea great love for natural history. A graduate
of Queen's University specializes in
Canadian Military History, especially the First
World War and has extensively toured
battlefields in France, Belgium and the
Netherlands. She has been with the Brockville
Museum for 7 years. Her ability to share
Brockville's story with depth and passion makes
her a sought-after public speaker and she
conducts museum programs both on- and off-
site to a wide variety of age groups. She and her
husband live in an 1830s farmhouse near New
Dublin and her love of nature and the outdoors
are well reflected in her interests, whether it be
curling, making and selling preserves and other
garden products, or tending to her bees and
quails,

Viktor’s career path has taken him full circle,
Although having completed a graduate degree


in geography, much of his professional life was
spent at the parliaments of Ontario and
Saskatchewan as a Legislative Clerk. Now in a
new phase of his life, he draws upon the
knowledge and experience from his time as a
summer historical interpreter at Ste. Marie-
among-the-Hurons in Midland, Ontario where
he grew up. His role as community engagement
officer at the Brockville Museum, which he has
held since 2009, includes volunteer coordination,
public outreach, website
maintenance, event planning, and fundraising
support. Viktor has a strong attachment to the
St. Lawrence River having lived in Iroquois,
upon arriving from England as a child and it
was the river that resulted in his choice of
Brockville as the place he wanted to live. He
therefore comes by his fascination with ships
and the Seaway honestly. He is also an avid
aviation historian and photographer, has a
stained glass studio in his basement, enjoys
cooking (and consuming the results), and any
excuse fo get on a plane and travel!

media relations,

Alison joined the earlier this
Harking from Burlington, she has degrees in
history and Management and
Curatorship. Her expertise managing and
handling artefacts and collections while at the
City of Hamilton's cultural department and the
Museum of Health Care in Kingston has proven
to be invaluable. She is
‘committed and has shown herself to be generous
in sharing her knowledge with museum staff
and volunteers. Not only does she handle the
day-to-day registration of artefacts and
management of the museum's collection, she has
led our “Open Drawer” project by which we are
converting all of our paper records to electronic
records. She also takes care of the museum's
payroll, money and accounts, and other
administrative duties. In her spare time she
likes to go to the family cottage near Lake of
Bays in Muskoka. She is also an avid reader,
and is currently training to run her first 5K in
April of 2015, She also considers herself a wine
Submited by VK

Museum,

tenacious and

Page 67 of 136

Museum staff and supporters had a ball playing cheesy
games. like "Cheese Chucking” using Babybels of
Course) at our Cheese Ball on November 14th at the
Brockville Legion. Pictured here Brian Porter, Viklor
Kacekowski, Nancy Van Ulden snd Kat! Knight

The Museum: a great place to do
a High School Co-Op Placement

‘Meet Jordan, Matt and Wyatt, three local high.
school students who have been working at
the museum since September completing aco
op placement. The three have been working,
fon the Open Drawer Project, cataloguing.
objects as well as taking photographs and
inventorying the collection. They have been a
hhuge asset to the museum over the past four
‘months and we will really miss them when
they finish their placement in January.

Page 68 of 136

From the Photographic Archive: King Street & Victoria Hall

The Brockville Museum has nearly 29000 photographs in its archival collection. These images are used by
researchers and the museum to interpret and understand the past. Volunteers atthe Brockville Museum
have been working o digitize and preserve these photographs. ‘Thanks to our Ontario Trillium Foundation
grant, the Brockville Museum will beable to make these photographs more accessible tothe public inthe
Coming yeas

In order to highlight the museum's photographic collection, we recently introduced a new segment to our
newsletters featuring photographs from the archives. In this isue, we take a look at King Steet and
Victoria Hall We hope you will enjoy!

Victoria Hall (Brockville's Town Hall) was erected
during the years 1862-61. The building contract was
awarded on September 15, 1862 to John Steacy, Jr
{and David S. Booth, his partner) while William
Fitzsimmons, the mayor and an experienced builder
himself, was appointed to oversee the construction,
HLH. Horsey had originally estimated the total cost
of the new building to be $26,000.00 but casts may
have eventually exceeded that. Work began in the
fall of 1862 and continued through 1863 and into
1864 as the workmen tried to complete the final
details

Submited by NW.

Page 69 of 136

“Deaccessioning” is not a Dirty Word

The Open Drawer Project has allowed the
Brockville Museum the unique opportunity to
view our collection on an item by
making. thi
where there may be duplicates and gaps in our
collection. Our goal is to develop a collection
that is comprehensive, covers all eras, and
represents all facets of life in Brockville.

tem basis,

an excellent time to determine

To accomplish this, we have to asses
current holdings and weed out those things that
do. not
deteriorating and are otherwise unmanageable.
This is a formal process undertaken by all
known as ioning. ‘The
definition of deaccessioning is “the process of
permanently removing an object or objects from
a museum's collection.” We are carrying out

fit our mandate, are damaged or

museums eacces

this process in an appropriate manner and with
thoughtful consideration,

Grounds for an object to be considered for
deaccession include:
+ The collecting focus of the museum has
been refined or altered
+ Multiple examples of the object already
exist in the collection.
+ The object
deteriorating
+ The object can no longer be suitably stored
+ The object would be more relevant at
another public institution
+ The object is deemed to be a reproduction

has been damaged or is

As a museum, we are committed to an open and
transparent process. Once the Collection
Committee has approved an object for

deaccession, it will first be offered as a gift,
transfer, or exchange to another museum or
public collection.

practices and standards, if no public institution
is able to take the object, it may then be offered
for sale through a publicly advertised auction
with the funds obtained from the sale allocated

According to museum best

to enhancing the museum's collection and care.
Any objects that we find are damaged beyond
repair or which present safety and health risks
will be disposed of in a proper fashion,

We believe that it is important that
understand the museum is not selling oF giving
away donated objects unethically or without

careful consideration. We acknowledge that our
collection represents a public trust, and that
objects are accepted into our collection with the
presumption of permanence. That being said
deaccessioning is an integral part of responsible
collections management, a process carried out by
museums around the world, both large and
small. Ultimately this process will strengthen the
value of our collection and enhance our ability to
share our stories.

Submited by AD.

‘Alison is pictured here cataloguing and numbering
fntfacts om St Albans Schoo! for Boys which had been
‘on display in Beecher House


Lecture Series Returns!

‘One of our most popular programs will be
returning on February 3, 2015: our Annual
Winter Lecture Series. This year, we will be
seeing some returning speakers as well as
welcoming some new faces.

Al the lectures begin at 10:00 am and finish at
12,00 noon. ‘They are held all four Tuesdays in
February and the first Tuesday in March. The
cost for the series remains unchanged from last
year. Each lecture is $8, or $35 for the series,

I don’t want to give too much away, but the
series will begin with Brian Porter and a look at
the 200th anniversary of his alter ego, Sir John A.
Macdonald. Our next lecturer, Richard Brisson,
will explore the WWII cryptology and
cryptanalysis of the German Enigma machine.
The announcements of the other speakers will be
published in the coming weeks.

We are taking bookings for the Lecture Series
now. Simply call or drop by the museum to
reserve your seat. With this being a popular
event, it is not unheard of for the hall to sell out.
Much of that is likely due to the cookies
provided by our volunteers!

Submited by A.M.

Friends Receive Ross McNeil
Foundation Grant

The Friends of the Brockville Museum recently.
received a grant from the Ross McNeil
Foundation to help encourage more local
schools to visit the museum, specifically to see
the new Col. Curry exhibit and take part in the
museum's Poppies, Poems and Special Effects
program which looks at the story of three
Brockville Soldiers from the First World War
using primary documents. The $1000 grant will
help cover program and transportation costs for
classes on a first come, first served basis. If you
have a class that would like to participate,
please contact Amy.

Subited by NW

Page 70 of 136

‘ea

Joie Méscum Educator Amy
tn the Caerioge Hall fom 2
Ahm he son Thareday
Thetaes freenitn muscar

(On October 4th, Museum Educator, Amy Mackie
took patrons on a journey through the mysterious
past of the United Counties of Leeds and
Grenville. The bus tour featured stops atthe Blue
Church, Battle of the Windmill, Spencerville Mill,
Limerick Forest, Charleston Lake and LaRue Mills

Cemetery (pictured here). Amy's captivating
stories distracted everyone from the rain and our
bus driver Bob made sure that we all stayed
warm. Thank you to all who joined us for our
country drive

‘Amy shares stories about local dance halls ata recent
Tea with Amy

What is Tea With Amy?

In July of 2014, we introduced a new program
for museum visitors. Tea With Amy is a
chance to gather in the Carriage Hall for a
presentation and a cup of tea, of course!

Each Tea With Amy centres around a theme
and includes a 30-45 minute presentation on
the topic. However, this is NOT a lecture,
Throughout the session many stories are
shared and questions are asked. As you may
have guessed, the presenter is our own
Interpretation & Public Program Coordinator:
Amy Mackie.

A few months ago, we had a great discussion
about the former dance halls in Brockville;
another day, we looked into the lives of local
soldiers during the Great War. The topics
change, but the price is the same: free with
museum admission, Remember, as a museum
‘member, your admission is always FREE.

Held on the second Thursday of the month at
2.00 pm, the topic for January 8th will be “The
River in Winter.’ This will give us a chance to
look at how our use of the river changes in the
wintertime and how this could be a dangerous
thing - depending on our relationship with

Page 71 of 136

‘our American neighbours at the time.

Please note: due to the Winter Lecture Series,
there will be no Tea With Amy in February and
March. However, it will be returning on April
9th.

Mark your calendars for the second Thursday of
the month at 2pm and join us for a cup of tea and
1a chance to share some fascinating stories from.
Brockville’s past

January 8th June 11th September 10th
April 9th July 9th October 8th
May 14th August 13. November 12th

Sulited by A.M

Ironing in Archives?

Alison and Natalie are pictured here ironing a
product called Marvelseal on the plywood wall in
the expanded archives room. Off-gassing from
wood products can damage archival documents, so
before any documents were moved into the new
room a heat-sealed, archival-quality product called

Marvelseal was applied to the wall.
tasks of a curator.

(Oh! The many


Page 72 of 136

Spotlight on Volunteers

Pillar of the
museum, — Doris
Stewart, will
celebrate her 20%
anniversary asa
volunteer in
2015. Diligent

punctual, and
dependable she is
this
coordinator’s
dream volunteer!

volunteer

Ninety-year-old Doris Stewart
All dolled up for the Brockville 1 asked her the
Museum's, 1920s Murder other day, “what
Mystery Dinner: made you volunteer
at the museum’. I was expecting the usual
answer “I love the history”, but Doris being
Doris said, “my friend Dorothea said she
needed help”. (Some of you may remember
that Dr. Dorothea Kulis was a long-time
museum supporter and was instrumental in
establishing our beautiful gardens).

Doris, like many in the community, lived here
when she was young. She went to Victoria
Public School and BCI, left Brockville after
completing high-school but returned in 1990 to
help take care of her mother.

She remembers coming to the museum when it
first opened, when the museum consisted of just
Beecher House. When you would come in,
Cathy Bigalow would shout from the upstairs
“ean I help you?” ‘Things improved once the
new addition opened and it now seems quite
fitting that it is Doris who is now greeting
visitors. She went on to explain that during
quiet time at the front desk she likes to knit
since if she reads she worries about nodding off!

asked her what she enjoys about the museum.
Her reply was “the relaxed atmosphere and the

‘opportunity to meet interesting people”. She

remembers meeting former MP John Matheson
and “Brockette” Noreen Kelly in particular.

Being the start of a new year, | asked her if she
had a new year's resolution ~ her typical Doris,
reply was “to stay above ground”. You can’t
argue with that!

Staff at the Brockville Museum would like to
thank Doris for all her hard work and
dedication, and for helping to train so many
other front desk volunteers over the
Thank you Doris!

Volunteer Derek MeCombie has been busy working on
scanning the McCormick images from the McCormick
collection since uly 201,


Volunteer Anniversary
Recognition

As the year draws to a close we would like to
highlight those volunteers who celebrated
milestone anniversaries this year.

Celebrating 5 years:
+ Alleine Nause (visitor services)

+ Jean Ouellet (visitor services, Friends of
the Brockville Museum, é& Open Drawer
project)

+ Chuck Quick (visitor services & Open
Drawer project)

+ Nancy Van Ulden (visitor services &
‘Open Drawer project)
Celebrating 15 years:
+ Don Ruston (collections committee)

Congratulations to all of you on these
important milestones!

The museum has prospered more than ever in
2014 thanks to the efforts of | our
volunteers. Over 25 new volunteers joined our
ranks and the number of volunteer hours given
to the museum has increased sharply over last
year. We are very pleased to report that
Substantial progress has been made with the
Open Drawer project. All of our  three-
dimensional objects have now been inputted
into the catalogue and the catalogue is now
available online! In 2015 we will be starting on
entering all of the museum images into the
electronic catalogue which although a challenge
will be a very interesting task for everyone.

We applaud all of you, our volunteers, for your
continuing commitment - the museum would
not be able to keep its doors open if it weren't

for you!
Submited by VK.

Find us on:

facebook.

Page 73 of 136

Volunteer Pot-Luck

(On December 10% we invited our volunteers to
a Christmas potluck and get-together. Of
course this was the day of the first big
snowstorm of the season, however, over 20
brave souls ventured out into the elements to
join us. There was no shortage of tasty food

and animated conversation,

A Roaring Good Time
‘On October 17th a 1920s dinner party was held
in the Carriage Hall... and there was a murder
(or two)! Well, not really, but we did hold our
first ever Murder Mystery Dinner, to great
success. Guests came in costumes and
character and dined on fabulous 1920s fare.
Special thanks to Rachel Marks and her actors
for putting on a good interactive show, and to
‘everyone who came out and participated.

“Brockville at Twilight”, watercolour, By KH, Lindsay. From the Brockville Museunys collection.

A few months after my retirement from the
Brockville Museum, Rev. Allan Duncan, retired
minister of First Presbyterian Church, asked
me to join him and fellow Presbyterian Harold
Kelly in organizing the archives of First
Church. We have had a wonderful time going.
through some very old records especially those
‘of Rev. Wm, Smart 1812. Rev. Duncan was
such a knowledgeable man and we learned so
much from him, Rev. Duncan passed away a
few months ago. We are carrying on the work
he enjoyed doing so much,

In November, Sandra and Harold Kelly and 1
were in the tower room looking for old
photographs. We found two very large
military honour rolls which were produced by
R. H, Lindsay. These listed the members of
First Church who served in WWI. I was so
excited to see these. I learned that not many
people in our congregation knew about this
artist. We put the framed rolls on display for
our Remembrance Day Service and our
congregation really enjoyed seeing these long.
forgotten military works of art

1 was asked to share a little information on R,
H_ Lindsay for our church bulletin and thought
you too may enjoy reading about this very
talented artist.

RH. Lindsay

Page 74 of 136

Submitted by Bonnie Burke

About Robert Henry Lindsay

Robert Henry Lindsay was born in Prescott in
1868. His family moved to Brockville when he
‘was a young boy and he remained a resident
until his death in 1938
Lindsay's professional artistic endeavours
began when he worked for the James Smart
Manufacturing Company painting machinery
While employed there he became a student of
the noted Canadian artist Perey Woodcock who
was the principal instructor at the Brockville
‘Art School. Lindsay eventually succeeded

Woodcock at the school and began in earnest
his painting career. Lindsay would go on to
much local fame and come to be regarded as,
‘one of Canada’s best. He exhibited around the
world - United States, Ireland, and western
Canada.

In 1895 Lindsay opened an art studio on Main
Street, later 38 King St. West, The business not
only sold art, but also offered framing, painting
restoration and many other art-related services,
In 1911 Lindsay became a member of the
prestigious Arts Club of Montreal. Also in that
year he became the art instructor at Brockville
Collegiate Institute. He also taught at St

Page 75 of 136

world. He loved reading good books and served
con the library board for forty years, was the first
honorary member of the Brockville Rowing club,
and helped raise money for numerous charities,
by giving lantern shows about art to enthusiastic
audiences. He was known for his story-telling,
his sense of humour, his optimism and his
willingness to lend a hand. A friend of the
Lindsays recalled Lindsay once told her what he
looked forward to in heaven: “I'll have a whole
tub of paint and splash it on with a broom’,

~)

gy

Lindsay's work continues to delight both visitors
and local people. With his brushes he captured a
way of life and a time that is now only a
memory to many Brockvillians. He gave First
Presbyterian Church two wonderful pieces of art
to help us remember those who served so
bravely during the ‘Great War.

Alban's Boys School. In 1921, Mayor J. M,
Dobbie commissioned Lindsay to paint a large
version of the town seal to be placed above the
Mayor's chair in the council chamber.

In 1908 Robert Lindsay married Margaret E,
Boucher. Mrs, Lindsay was a member of First
Presbyterian Church and was interested in the
Women's Missionary Society. She was a member
of the Individual Responsibility Group (this later
became the Evening Missionary Society). Mr.
Lindsay helped raise money for First
Presbyterian Church by having an exhibit of
Irish art at the church. He held a ‘Night of
Robert Burns’ at BCIVS auditorium where he
designed a large gold picture frame on the stage,
projected his paintings onto the frame, people
portrayed characters in pantomime and read
Burns poetry.

Whenever Lindsay could find time, he would
take out his bicycle, load up his paint box and
ride off to the river to paint. He was a true lover
‘of nature and his creations in oils and water
colours reflected the beauties of land, sea, river

and sky in this area and various parts of the

What we're planning for 2015

Ws a little early forall the details yet, but staff have
been busy coming up with new’ and exciting.
programs and events for 2015,

We will be bringing back Tea with Amy and
annual favourites like the Lecture Series, Book Sale
and Silent Auction, but we also hope to introduce
new events to our lineup,

By popular demand, rest assured that we are
planning another Beer Tasting event, probably for
November.

For July and August we are hoping to offer evening,
walking tours of Brockville on the theme: Crimes
and Criminals. Who knew that Brockville had such
a seedy past... we did! And now we want to share
these stories with you and our visitors. Look for
more details inthe spring.

The Brockville Museum will be hosting the Eastern
Ontario British Home Child Day on September
26th. This annual event brings together
researchers, genealogists (amateur and
professional) and heritage organizations to discuss
and celebrate British Home Child heritage in
Canada,

We are also planning a number of new exhibits for
2015 starting with a flag exhibit celebrating John
Ross Matheson’s contributions and fifty years of
the Canadian Flag. We will also continue to
develop the “Made in Brockville” theme and the
“People of Brockville” panels, We are also aiming.
to do a new railway exhibit and plan to wrap up,
the year with “A Wartime Christmas” exhibit to
replace the “Wartime Photographs of Col. Curry”
exhibit in the Annex. This is definitely an
ambitious list of exhibits, but we hope that
changing displays will entice people to come and
visit the museum and engage in our history. That
said, exhibits aren't cheap and we are always
looking for people to sponsor exhibits or part
thereof. Please contact the museum if you are
interested in helping out financially

2015 is promising to be another busy year at the
‘museum. We hope that you will continue to
support our initiatives and spread the word!

‘Suited by NW.

Page 76 of 126,
Winter-Spring Calendar of Events

January 8%
‘Tea with Amy @ 2pm: Winter on the River

February 3:
Lecture Series @ 10am: Brian Porter

February 10%:
Lecture Series @ 10am: Richard Brisson

February 14%:
Friends Annual General Meeting @ 10am

February 164:
Family Day @ the Museum

February 17:
Lecture Series @ 10am

February 24H:
Lecture Series @ 10am

March 3:
Lecture Series @10am

March 17198:
‘March Break Programming

April 98:
Tea with Amy @ 2pm

April 27%May:
Friends Book Sale

May 14;
Tea with Amy

May 230.240
Doors Open Brockville & the 1000 Islands

June 11
Tea with Amy @ 2pm

June 276-28;
Friends Garden Tour

For more information on any ofthese events please check
out our website a we brockillemusetn.com or call us
at 613-342-4397


Page 77 of 136

The Monitor

Volume 31, Issue 2: Summer 2015

Summer is Here!

Well, the May long weekend has come and gone,
and with that comes the unofficial start t0 the
‘summer tourism season. The museum is now
‘open seven days a week! Monday-Saturday, 10-5
and Sunday, 15,

‘There are new faces at the museum this season
too: our annual batch of summer students started
in May, this year we welcomed four local
students to our ranks.

We also use the start of the summer season to
spruce things up in our galleries, This summer
‘we are pleased to announce that visitors will be
Tn this issue:
Garden Tour
Gramophone Project.
From the Photographic Archives.
‘Open Drawer Project Update
Upcoming Exhibits
Brockville's Criminal Past.
Spotlight on Volunteers,
Banners & Book Sale.

Upcoming Events

privileged to several new displays. We've
brought out some old telephones made in
Brockville by General Electric. And keeping
with the “Made in Brockville” theme, we've
pulled out a wide selection of objects once made
in Brockville including fishing lures, pantyhose
and pharmaceuticals. And finally, back by
popular demand is Con Darling's tattered jacket
‘and baby carriage, capping off our recent

“People of Brockville” display.

We've also got some new events planned for the
‘summer, including the Friend’ of the Brockville
“Museum's “Hidden Gardens of Brockville” tour

‘on June 27 & 28, and our inaugural “Brockville's
Criminal Past" Historical Walking Tours will
take place every Friday night in July and August.
‘As we move ahead with 2005, we are focused on


Page 78 of 136

Hidden Gardens of Brockville Tour
to support the Friends of the Brockville Museum

Article by Doreen Barnes

The Hidden Gardens of Brockville brochures
and posters are popping up all over Brockville
and surrounding areas, with this event taking.
place on Saturday, June 27% fom Iam. to
4p.m and Sunday, June 28, 1am. to3 p.m,

This fundraiser organized by the Friends of the
Brockville Museum is in partnership with the
Brockville and 1000 Islands Tourism with
sponsorship by the Great Waterway South
Eastern Ontario and Henderson Printing,

For $10 a ticket, the public has the opportunity
to view never-seen or would-not-normally-see
gardens.

“There was a slow uptake in Brockville initially
to get gardens on the tour,” said Friends of the
Brockville Museum co-chair Doug Smith, “but
we do have eight, six in Brockville and two in
Maitland. But, the Maitland Garden of Hope
and Mary Ann Van Barlow’s gardens were
offered and I accepted, which did boost the
number of gardens.”

Each garden in this tour offers diversity.

‘At 49 Pearl St. W., these heritage gardens are
accented with an English cottage garden and a
series of rooms showcasing poppies, lupines,
roses and more.

Moving onto 49 Abbott St, Hugh Campbell, a
novice gardener now an organic food producer
turned an asphalt lot into an annual vegetable
garden with a series of raised beds of berry
shrubs, grapes, black tomatoes, kiwi vines and.
fruit tres.

‘Another heritage home at 14 Maple St. has wrap
around gardens with many new plant varieties.
This property also has another hidden garden.
Behind 512 King St. W., fairies, gnomes and
local wildlife can be found among the ever
abundance of flowers and plants,

Not all gardens are on flat ground, as seen at

the entry West of 100 Hartley with the hillside

Sipe The Hidden G Lah
trees sand ~rocgville

as sentries 3
protecting

the colour

bursts of

secluded

grounds.

27 100m 4pm

Don't miss
the warm
and inviting
gardens at
76 Orchard
St, a place
where
friends and relatives gather.

As for the two properties in Maitland, 1357
County Road 2 gardens are plentiful with sun-
loving perennials, shrubs, shade plants and old
favorites, irises, peonies, penstemons, daylilies,
clematis, heucheras, hostas, ferns and.
uncommon plants,

‘Over at the Maitland Garden of Hope, there are
20 theme gardens with 5,000 perennials, grasses
and shrubs. Lending to nature, a registered
monarch way station and apiary exists in co-
habitation with birds, honeybees and ground
visitors

Most gardens are accessible, but be mindful of
steep grades, uneven surface and hillsides.

Tickets are available the Brockville Museum, 5
Henry St


Gramophone Tour Project comes to
Brockville for May 4th

The Gramophone Tour Project started in the UK,
went through England, and came to Canada by
way of a Canadian Lancaster Bomber last
September. The Brockville
contacted in late February 2015 about the
possibility of bringing the gramophone to
Brockville for May’ 4%" (Remembrance of the
Dead day in the Netherlands),

Museum was

The inspiration for the Tour was the heroic
actions of Brockville's Robert B. Moulton, who
was piloting his Vickers Wellington He-727,
NA-K in the night of May 4%, 1943. He was hit
by a German night fighter aircraft as he was
trying to return to the North Yorkshire RCAF
base at Dalton. It was hit near the village of
Wilnis. Moulton steered the plane away from
the village and crashed into a nearby bog,
sacrificing his own life to save those of the

lagers. The whole plane disappeared into the
peat bog, not to be seen again until 2002 after a
half million dollar excavation campaign to raise
the plane.

In the summer of 2008, a group of a dozen men
from England and Holland visited Dalton,

They held a small ceremony, placing a
contemporary gramophone on the airstrip

They found that playing it helped them to reflect
upon their freedom and made them feel humble.

The Gramophone then went to the Netherlands
and was played in Wilnis.

Page 79 of 136
Today, there are two gramophones travelling to
different military and civilian locations’ to
honour the fallen: one in Canada and one in
Europe.

The Brockville Museum was honoured to host
the Gramophone Tour on May 4 and hold a
ceremony of remembrance simultaneously with
one at the Dalton airfield and one in the village
of Wilnis. ‘The local ceremony included the
unveiling of a "People of Brockville’ panel
honouring Moulton, the reading of "High
Flight’, the playing of the gramophone, and
a performance by Brockville's Dutch Choir. The
museum was especially honoured to have
members of Moulton's family in attendance.

Photos of the Wilnis ceremony are posted on

our Facebook page. suman wv

Introducing Ellen..

«
».

The Friends of the Brockville applied for and.
received an 8.week “Canada Summer Jobs”
grant from Service Canada for an Assistant
Registrar. We hired Ellen O’Dair for this
position, Originally from Brockville, Ellen is
currently enrolled in Ancient Mediterranean
Studies at Wilfred Laurier University, which
hhas fostered an interest in working with
historical objects. She hopes to pursue a
career as an archivist or museum librarian,
Ellen will be working closely with Alison, re-
cataloguing and photographing artifacts.

Page 80 of 126,
From the Photographic Archive: King Street & Market St. E.

In this issue's “From the Photographic Archives”, we take a look at a recent acquisition that came to
us by way of Clayton, New York, initially as a research request and as a bit of a mystery.

The historian there came across this photograph and was trying to place it. Research on the internet
fof some of the businesses featured suggested that it might be Brockville. Hoping to gain some
insight, the Clayton historian sent us a copy of the image.

Admittedly, when we first looked at it, we couldn't place it, Most of the photos that we are used to
seeing of Brockville are dated after 1910. At first glace, there were no distinguishing features in this
frame that made us think, “Brockville”. But, ever the curious historians ourselves, we went digging.
We too did an internet search, and sure enough, Poulin’s Cigar Factory, for one, came up as
identifiably Brockville . So, with it fairly

‘well established that his was indeed
Brockville, we dove into our
photographic archives to place the {
buildings. And did we ever! ‘These
photos of King Street (included to the
right) helped identify the prominent
building on the corner (where the |
Wedgewood now stands).

This was a fun and fulfilling litle
research project. The historian in
Ghyton was pleaed tht we solved the ff er A
mystery and in turn donated the picture ‘Above: Cropped photos from the museum's collection ¢1909 &
to the Brockville Museum ek: tery ltr ran Clayton

Submited by NW.

Open Drawer Project Update

It is hard to believe that we have reached the
one year mark for our Open Drawer Project!
Volunteer involvement and enthusiasm for this
project has far surpassed our expectations.
Logging over 2,500 hours to date, volunteers
have entered all of our three dimensional
objects into the new online database. Thanks to
the help of our new volunteer photographer,
images of some of our artifacts can now be
viewed online through the Brockville Museum's
website, We encourage everyone to take a look
at the database and read about the many
artifacts that the Brockville Museum has in its
collection (new information being added daily)

The second phase of the project began in April
of this year with volunteers entering in
information on our paper and photographic
collection. With 29,000 archival objects in total,
most with little or no information recorded
about them, this phase is more in-depth and
requires a hands-on approach from our
volunteers. In the coming months, volunteers
extensive care and handling
training, and will then have the opportunity to
handle some of our paper and photographic
objects as they record descriptions, history,
dimensions and condition remarks. This,
information is crucial to building background
information and context for objects. Being able
to identify the location and people in a
photograph makes the object that much more
meaningful. Not surprising, volunteers are
looking forward to getting their gloved hands on.
these artifacts and putting their training to use.

will receive

In concert with the data entry activities of the
‘Open Drawer Project, the museum's collection
storage rooms have undergone drastic
reorganization in an effort to improve space
efficiencies, access, and object preservation.
Thanks to on-going contributions from The
Friends of the Brockville Museum towards
conservation supplies, new archival boxes were

‘Volunteers needed for Hiddempage 21 of 196
Gardens of Brockville

recently purchased.
a safe storage
photographic

These specialty boxes offer
option for paper and
artifacts, help prevent
deterioration, and professional
preservation and standards.
Using these boxes also makes artifacts more
easily retrievable and allows us to better share
more of Brockville’s unique stories with our
community

meet
conservation

Thank you to the Friends of the Brockville
Museum for their on-going financial
commitment to this exciting project and to our
many volunteers who have been diligently
working to make this long-planned initiative a
reality!

Submited by AD.

‘Alison is pictured here providing a "behind-the-scenes
tour ofthe museums textile stone toom during Doors
(Open on May 25rd. Tours were offered hourly during
the two day event and provided an introduction on
artifact care and conservation aswell as collections
‘management Visitors were invited to explore the Textile
Room, the Archive Room and our three-dimensional
objet Stonage Room,

‘Volunteers needed for Hidden
Gardens of Brockville

Upcoming Exhibits
We are in the midst of a five-year exhibit re-
vitalization plan at the museum. We started in
2013 with the Hat Exhibit, In 2014 we unveiled a
temporary exhibit on the Wartime Photographs
of Col. Curry (now on until September). During
this time we also worked to re-organize and up-
date some of our other existing displays. We've
also worked to incorporate our two interpretive
themes: “Made in Brockville” and “The People of
Brockville". Earlier this year we removed the St
Alban’s School exhibit and replaced it with a
temporary exhibit celebrating 50 years of our flag
(on now until the end of july)

We've got an ambitious plan for the next 2 years
which includes temporary displays
permanent exhibits:

August: The Life and Works of William Butler Yeats:
a travelling exhibit presented by the National
Library of Ireland and brought to the Brockville
Museum in partnership with the Brockville Irish
Cultural Society.

and

September: Stitching Expressions: an exhibition
by the Artistic Stitchers showcasing their
impressive needlepoint creations.

October 2015—January 2016: Holidays Back Home
= Brockville & WWII: a holiday-themed exhibit
that explores how people kept traditions alive
despite the challenges of War.

Opening in Winter 2016: Brockville's Railway
History: a new permanent exhibit examining
Brockville's rich railway history

October 2016: The Barn Raising Pro
travelling exhibition featuring 40 pieces of
traditional hooked artwork depicting the rural
barns of Canada. Presented in partnership with
Brockville's Hooking Craft Guild.

January 2017-December 2017: How Brockville
Celebrated the Centennial: a temporary exhibit
looking back on 1967 in Brockville.

‘Submited by NAW.

Page 82 of 136

More People Unveiled

Chairman of the Board of Management and
“People of Brockville” exhibit panel sponsor,
Brian Porter, shares some of his favourite stories
about Major Walsh during the Friends of the
Brockville Museum Annual General Meeting and
“People of Brockville” exhibit panel unveiling
ceremony on February 1th. Five new panels
‘were unveiled that day, including Walsh,

Tntroducing Cole and Mallory.

‘Between Victoria Day and Labour Day weekends,
the museum is open seven days a week! To cover
weekend front desk shifts, we hire local students.
This year, we welcome Cole Pettum and Mallory
Phillips

HisTORICAL WALKING TouR

July & August

Tours Depart @ 4pm & 7pm
Brockville Museum

Tickets $6/person

This summer, join us for a
walking tour... if you dare
When the Counties Courthouse relocated to
Brockville, it brought with it some amazing
stories and changed the town forever. Even
back in the 1800s, courtroom galleries were
packed with curious onlookers and detailed
trial reports sold _newspapers...but
proceedings inside the Courthouse were just
the beginning. Historically, the mean streets
of Brockville have harboured some vicious
criminals and seen violent crimes.

This summer, guides from the Brockville
Museum will the from
“Brockville's Criminal Past”.

recount stories

For those that dare: you will hear the story of
fone of Canada’s largest bank heists, ‘the
twisted tale of the last man hanged in
Brockville, the frightening account of a mass
shooting and discover exactly what happened
to John Simpson’s skin,

Warning: some of the stories are graphic and
the tour is not recommended for children
under 10 years of age.

Tickets are available at Brockville Museum

prior to tour departures,
Submited ty A.M.

Page 83 of

Children’s Summer Programs
For kids age 6-11

ineus CURATOR FORA DAY

“Aug. I-15

Soldiers of the Stage

July 21-23 ‘Aug. 25-27

am-noon each day
$30/child for members
ADVANCE REGISTRATION REQUIRED

Introducing Emily Tobin, this summer's,
Interpretation and Programming Assistant, Emily is
currently studying concurrent education at Queen's
University and hopes to one day be a high school
English teacher. Here she is engaged in a typical
first week job at the museum: combing through our
craft supplies in search of inspiration for a program!
This position has been funded through a Young
Canada Works grant.

136


Spotlight on Volunteers

Volunteer Nicholas
February after

Legault joined usin
expressing an interest in
photography. His timing was perfect! He has
been spending his time taking

standard photographs of the museum's artifacts,
for the online database. Museum
Administrative Assistant/Registrar, Alison
Dingledine told me how pleased she is with his
work and his diligence and attention to detail,
which is so necessary when undertaking this
kind of work.

His “black” image hides a cheery disposition.
Don’t let his clothing choices fool you. As he
explains “I wore lots of bright colours as a child
and then I decided I didn’t like them anymore”.
Black is now his colour of choice, right down to
the gloves! He laughs as he explains further,
‘ve been called “the priest” or even “the
undertaker” because I'm always in black. The
gloves are not a fashion statement though, due
to anaphylaxis he is deathly allergic to many
foods and the gloves are a preventive measure
against direct contact.

That doesn’t slow him down in any way ~ he is
an avid photographer, reader, and driver. His
favourite photographic themes are wildlife and
nature. His love of driving is a natural adjunct.
He enjoys exploring country roads, looking for
places to take pictures. Trying to get lost on
lonely back roads adds to experience, “you
never know where you are going to end up.
and that just adds to the fun!” Nicholas also
reads over 100 books per year, no particular
genre, just whatever strikes his fancy. Not
surprisingly, Nicholas also volunteers at the
Brockville Public Library, where he has been for
just over a year, and also with the Youth
Volunteer Group (which is part of the
Employment and Education Centre)

Lasked Nicholas to tell me something curious
about himself...apparently his birthday is July
Ist, but he wasn’t born on just any July Ist, he

born on Canada’s 125th birthday

‘Volunteers needed for
Gardens of Brocks

iddewbane 84 of 136
He

5 Brockille-rel

Nicholas’ 25th birthday it seems, should be
quite a party!

So if you come across a young man dressed in
black driving a silver Jeep on a dirt road, don’t
‘worry, it’s just our volunteer Nicholas trying to
find his way home!

Sulited by VK.

‘The Brockville Museum|
was thrilled to welcome
another high school co-
‘op student this spring,
Alex LaCroix, from St
Mary, has been busy
working on the Open
Drawer Project and
helping with the
reorganization of the
Archives Room,

‘Volunteers needed for Hidden

Page 85 of 136
New Banners

‘Thanks to the Friends of the Brockville Museum,
three banners were purchased last fall. They
were installed this spring by volunteer, Greg
Healy. They add a pop of colour to the Water
Street side of the museum building and are
visible from St. Paul Street to St. Andrew Street
‘The images on the three banners represent
Brockville's people, Brockville’s industrious
past, and our connection to the river.

An overgrown bush had to be removed from
next to the building in order to make the
banners fully visible. This labourious task was
performed by volunteer, Scott Mackie,

Submited by N.W,

Friends Receive Sad News

As we were wrapping up production of this,
issue of the Monitor, we received the sad news
that Friends Executive member, Robert Palmer
had passed away.

Robert joined the Friends Executive in 2014
and has been a tremendous supporter of the
museum over the past several years, not only.
financially, but in his contagious enthusiasm
and un-relentless bolster-ism,

Robert will truly be missed by his museum
family.

Robert Palmer with bis “girls” at our volunteer pot-luck
in December 2016

‘The Catrage Hall fll of books on the first day of the
anual Book Sale. Photo by Ralph Newson, This yeas
fle was the best we have ever had. Thanks to an
excellent effort on the patt of the Friends of the
Brockville Museum a record total of 1,535 was aise,

Find us on:

facebook.


Looking ahead to 2017

Yes, that's right, "2017"
Canada ate preparing for our 150th birthday:
celebration! And we atthe Brockville Museum will
not let the festivities pass us by
planning?

We're looking back at 1967 and all its glory!

Communities across

So, what are we

Centennial and Centeen Parks, the Youth Arena,
parades and dances, How did Brockville celebrate
the Centennial? We are preparing an exhibit that
celebrates how we celebrate.

The Centennial marked a period of significant
community building across the country, I dare you
to find a town in this country that doesn’t have a
Centennial arena, park, or community centre. In
this sense, Brockville’s story may not be unique,
but how we marked 100 years is a pivotal story in
how we developed as a community. We hope that
you will be as excited to step back to the 19606 as
Do you have a special memory, photo or souvenir
of celebrating the Centennial in Brockville? We'd
love for you to share it with us. Contact us to find
out hov

Ope of Cnn Pack 47. Ree Ts Callin

‘Suited by NW.

Page 86 of 136

Summer-Fall Calendar of Events

‘Thursday, June 11%:
Tea with Amy Viktor © 2pm.
Cruising Blockhouse

Every Friday in July & August starting July 3°:
Brockeille's Criminal Past Historical Walking Tour
@ 4pm & 7pm.

‘Thursday, July 9"
Tea with Amy @ 2pm
Gass the Artifact

‘Thursday, August 13%
‘Tea with Amy @ 2pm
Ferg Servis

Friday, August 28%:
Last presentation of "Brockville's Criminal Past”

‘Thursday, September 10%:
Tea with Amy @ 2pm
The Fal Fair

Friday & Saturday, September 18% & 19%
Silent Auction

Saturday, September 264
Ontario East British Home Child Day Festivities

‘Thursday, October 8
Tea with Amy @ 2pm
Coneteres

‘Wednesday, October 28° (fentative date)
Montreal “Beaver Hall Group” Exhibit Bus Tour

‘Thursday, November 12%:
Tea with Amy @ 2pm

lle Museum

For more information on any ofthese events please check
out our website a we brockillemusetn.com or call us

at 613-342-4397


Page 87 of 136

The Monitor

Volume 31, Issue 3: Fall 2015

What a Great Summer it was, and a Busy One Awaits Us!

In our June newsletter I explained that one of the
goals we are most focused on is increasing
Visitation to the museum. Well, I am thrilled to
announce that we are well on our way! This
year, we saw our summer season general
Visitation increase by 40% over attendance
figures for the past three summers. That's
amazing.

Sure, the stronger US dollar is no doubt a
contributing factor, but based on feedback in our
visitor surveys and guest book, we feel confident
that a greater factor is our increased visibility:
like the new rack cards and new banners (both

Tn this issue:
‘Summer Program Recap.
Fundraising with Fudge

From the Photographic Archives.
New Holiday Exhibit

2015 Partnerships.

Staying up to date
Spotlight on Volunteers.

Friends Executive News

Upcoming Events

purchased by the Friends of the Brockville
Museum). I would also be remiss not to mention
the attractive gardens that greet visitors, thanks
to the tremendous work by our garden
volunteers and. financial support from the
Friends. Our new and highly successful walking
tours also contributed to an increase in the
‘museum's visibility and popularity.

We hope to continue this upswing in visitation
with a full schedule of new and temporary
exhibits planned for 2016, kicking off with a
‘travelling exhibit from the Royal Ontario
‘Museum that will be here between February and
May, 2016. “Seeds in Disguise: the Biology and
Lore of Ornamental Seeds” is a travelling exhibit
being brought to Brockville thanks to a grant
from the Government of Canada, and sponsored
by the Leeds and Grenville Stewardship Council


Page 88 of 136

Summer Programming Recap

The summer just flew by - and it wasn’t just
because of the nice weather! Our summer
student Emily did a great job balancing our new
walking tours and planning the kids’ summer
camps. She was so enthusiastic, she even came
back to add a dramatic flair to our Pink Pills
event! Thank you to the Government of Canada
for funding Emily’s position as part of their
‘Young Canada Works program.

Emily put together 4 summer programs this
year. She got everyone up and moving, while
they were learning this summer. Participants at
The Circus Comes to Town learned about the
circus and put on their own performance on the
last day. For Hometown Heroes, we had the
police, fire and EMS come to the museum -
with all their cool trucks! During Curator for a
Day, a special temporary exhibit was created in
the Kids’ Room. Finally, the performers were
‘once again centre stage, like the Brockettes,
before them, during Soldiers of the Stage.
Unfortunately, the groups were smaller this

year...more on that later.

The Brockville's Criminal Past walking tours
‘were a great success this year. In fact, we had
such an amazing response on the second week,
we had to run a second 4pm tour! Thank you to
all our volunteers and members that came out,
and brought their friends and outoftown
visitors with them, We will definitely be
offering them again next year - with some
changes and new/additional stories.

Given that participation at all children’s,
summer programs at our local museums are
waning, we have decided that for 2016 we will
try something new. We will still have a

summer student, but their focus will be more on.

outreach activities. ‘This includes the walking.
tour, our birthday parties, manning a museum,
table at community events and a special new
dramatic program. I don’t want to give too

much away, but it will be great fun for all!

to the

Hopefully, these changes will play
strengths of our students and will make the
museum more visible.
and exciting challenges.
gets cooler, we look forward to summer again!
Submitted by A.M.

We look forward to new
and as the weather

Photos from “Hometowon Heroes” & "Curator fora Day”

‘A view of the re-organizad archival storage room where
paper documents, photos and books ate stored

Fundraising with Fudge
(Order Form Attached)

We've got an delicious fundraiser planned for
the upcoming holiday season... but we need
your sweet tooth!

Fundraising with Fudge is a simple fundraiser
that we thought we'd try this fall. It’s offered
by Brockville’s O'Malley Kourt Fudgery and all
we have to do is buy fudge.

If you haven't stopped by their shop on King St
we certainly urge you to try their delectable
treats, but it's the fudge that will make your
mouth water.

So, if you need a hostess gift for a holiday party,
a stocking stuffer, or just something to have on
hand for unexpected guests, we encourage you
to buy some fudge, likewise, we encourage you
to take orders on behalf of friends and family.

‘An order form is enclosed. The order deadline
is November 30th and all fudge will be
delivered to the museum for pick-up on
December 7th, wrapped and ready to go.

Note that the fudge is good for six weeks when
stored at room temperature, so no need to
devour it in one sitting (unless you want to.
Submited

NW.

Page 89 of 136

What is the Open Drawer Project

We have spent a lot of time talking about the
Open Drawer Project and providing our
members with updates on the status of the
project. But if you're interested in learning.
‘more about the Open Drawer Project and what
it all really means, here's your opportunity.
Museum staff will be presenting at the
November 9th meeting of the Leeds and
Grenville Branch of the Ontario Genealogical
Society. Meeting kicks off at 7:30 in the
‘museum's Carriage Hall. The talk will include
a look at what is in our collection, the process
of putting our stuff online, and how you can
search the database from the comfort of home!

Sulit

2015-2016 Co-Op Students

NW,

‘This fall the museum was delighted to receive
two new co-op students, Jhames from St
Mary Secondary School in Brockville and Lea
from South Grenville District High School in
Prescott. Both Jhames and Lea are working
‘on the Open Drawer Project, taking photos of
objects, scanning documents and doing an
inventory of what's in archival storage boxes.

Page 90 of 198
From the Photographic Archive: The Manitonna Hotel
The sod turning ceremony for Brockville's Wedgewood Retirement Resort took place in July 2006;
just a year and a half later, the building opened its doors. But before the Wedgewood, the site was
hhome to the Manitonna Hotel
In the 1920s it became clear to Brockville residents that the town was in need of a modern hotel with
Which to attract tourist to its downtown and pe
riverfront. Following on the success of towns like fs
Kamloops and Comwall, Brockville started a =~
campaign to raise the funds required to buy the
land and build a hotel. More than 250 local people
‘bought shares (at $100 a piece) to give Brockville a
first class hotel, at atime when Brockville's
population was only 9500

The new hotel would have about 75 rooms, a
dinning room overlooking the river, a restaurant|
and parlors. It would cost $325,000 (money raised
by members of the community).

Sadly, two young men lost their lives during the

Manito Hotels. 1930
hotel's construction,

Before opening on May 27th, 1929, a competition to name the new hotel was held, with Honor F.
Gowan submitting the winning name: “Manitonna”, meaning, “garden of the Great Spirit”

The premier room in the Manitonna was the Wedgewood Room. It was an attractive room
overlooking the St. Lawrence River, and could hold up to 200 people. The Wedgewood Room also
had a connecting solarium and lounge. This was the place to hold events in Brockville. People
dressed up to go there and it was said that nowhere else had a dance floor that compared to the
Manitonna’s

In February 1931 alone, at least ten local groups held events in the Manitonna’s Wedgewood Room,
including the Brockville Railmen’s Social Club, the Registered Nurses association, the Jaycees and the
Brockville Ladies Curling Club.
Rooms in the Manitonna rented for $2.50-85.00/day and
included golf privileges at the Brockville Golf & Country Club.

In July 1931, Brockville residents were entertained when Jerry
Hudson, “The Human Fly” climbed from the sidewalk to the
roof of the Manitonna, The crowd extended for blocks east
and west of the hotel and included many on roofs.

Interior renovations were carried out on the iconic hotel in
1974, but as early as 1980, the Manitonna was being referred to
jas an eyesore. By 1996 it was considered an embarrassment to
Brockville's downtown, and was torn down. Over the next
Jdecade, several plans were submitted to fill in the void on
King St. with the Wedgewood Retirement Residence

a) ultimately securing the prime downtown location in 2006.
BAGH Alumnae Dinner in the Wedgewood Room 1955.
‘Suited by NW.

New Holiday Exhibit looks at life
in Brockville during Second
World War

When war was declared in 1939, many locals
rushed to sign up. As in previous conflicts, the
Brockville Rifles were called into service. ‘The
new Officers’ Training Centre, located on
‘Ormond Street, trained military leaders from
across the country. Local factories produced
goods to send overseas. Huge crowds gathered
at the Brockville Train Station to wave the
soldiers off.

‘Once the soldiers left, those back home went on
as best they could. But with so many away, the
holidays were much different. People were left
to wonder, how could we celebrate when the
world was at war?

This is the theme of a new holiday exhibit
opening this fall at the museum. Holidays Back
Home: Brockville and WWI explores how
Brockville's ordinary people celebrated the
holidays while supporting the war effort.

While our holiday exhibits typically
designed for the school children that come to
the museum in December, given the subject
‘matter, we have kept an adult audience in mind
with this one. ‘The exhibit will be opening in
November, to give more people the opportunity
to take it in.

We had great fun searching through archival
materials to piece together Brockville’s story of
how holidays were celebrated during the
Second World War. Some of the pieces that will
be on display include an issue of the Blitz
Magazine form the Officers’ Training Centre, a
holiday letter written by a local soldier to his
family back home, and a WWII teacher's guide
featuring a story by a local educator.

The exhibit will be open in time for
Remembrance Day and will on display until
mid-January.

Suited by AM

Page 91 of 136

Canadian Women’s Service Corp on parade on King St
(Cropped image),

Volunteer Open House &
Information Session

‘The museum currently has volunteer openings for
(lront desk receptionist).
Responsibilities include greeting vistors, handling gift

shop and admission sales, and directing phone calls.
Shifts are 2 hours once a week (Monday-Friday, between,
10 and 5). If you or someone you know is interested in
volunteering with the museum in this capacity, please
consider attending our upcoming Open House/
Information Session on Tuesday, November 17h at 2pm

‘or contact Viktor atthe museum.


2015 Partnerships

This year the museum had the opportunity to
partner with a number of groups to deliver
mandate-related programming and events. In
May, we worked with Brockville's Dutch
community and friends in England and the
Netherlands to present a special day of
remembrance. In August, we partnered with
Brockville's Irish Cultural Society to present an
exhibit celebrating the life and works of William,
Yeats. Some of the museum's art pieces were
put on display at St. Lawrence College in
September thanks to a partnership with the
Public Library and the College. Culture Days
and British Home Child Day gave us an
‘opportunity to work the Leeds and Grenville
Branch of the Ontario Genealogical Society and
the Ontario East British Home Child Family to
present a rich day of lectures and research
information. These partnerships keep us busy,
but allow us to offer an increased variety of
mandate-related programs that respond to the
needs of our community

(On September 26th, the Brockville Museum hosted the
Ontario East British Home Child Family and the Leeds
and Grenville Branch of the Ontario Genealogical Soiety
to recognize and celbrate Home Child Day and this
unique history. Lectures were held in the Carriage Hall
land information booths were set up in the Classroom,
Eighty people attended this free educational event which
was also held in conjunction with Culture Days

Submited by NAW.

Find us on:

facebook.

Page 92 of 136

More People Unveiled

Four new “People of Brockville” panels were
unveiled in June: Caesar Congo (sponsored by
Doris Stewart, pictured), the Jones and Buell
families (sponsored by Robert Palmer), “Sally
Grant” (sponsored by the Leeds & Grenville Law
Association, represented by Culic Clinton, pictured
here), and RH. Lindsay (sponsored by Margaret
Williams). The Museum now has fifteen “People of
Brockville” panels on display throughout the
museum. In the spring, these panels will be
brought together into one room, along, with related
artifacts, to form a new permanent exhibit,
celebrating Brockville's people and our social
history. Once installed, we will begin planning
Phase II and introduce more “People” to the
exhibit

‘Another Great Silent Auction

The Friends Annual Kitsch & Collectibles Silent
‘Auction took place on October 2 & 3 and was once
fgain a tremendously successful fundraiser for the
fiends, bringing in over $2,000. Thank you everyone
who donated or bid on objects!

How to stay up to date on
museum goings-on
The museum is a busy place, and sometimes
we don’t get all our events and programs
scheduled and placed in The Monitor, but
there are lots of ways to stay up to date on all
our goings on!

1) Provide us with an email address: this is the

efficient way for us to get the
information you want to know directly to you
ina timely fashion,

most

2) Follow us on Facebook: in addition to posts
about our upcoming events, we are always
sharing, photos from our collection and cool
Brockville stories.

3) Check our website: we try to keep our
website up to date with detailed descriptions
of all our events and programs. Stay tuned.
we've got a whole new website coming soon!

4) Online calendars: we publish to 8 different
on-line calendars, including the Frontenac
Arch Biosphere, Brockville and
Snap'd.

5) In Print: we distribute press-releases for all
four major events to all the local press, and
usually, they do print them! Most of our
events get listed on the Snap’d calendar, but

something (so. it’s
always good to double check online or by
giving us a call)

sometimes we do m

6) On television: for all our major events we
get to sit down with Doreen Barnes on Cogeco
Brockville's FYI, so check it out!

7) At the museum: flyers with our upcoming.
events are usually available at the front desk
and our lobby television scrolls through the
details of everything that’s coming up.

Do you know of an upcoming museum event
or program? Spread the word.  Word-of-
mouth is a great way to keep people in the
know! Submited by NIV.

Page 98 of 136
BROCKVILLE’S

CRIMINAL Pas

HISTORICAL WALKING TOUR

5 en Tou!
ei A @ 4pm & TOM

Tickets $6/person,

“not recommended for
children under 10

Pink Pills Anyone?
le r | Ss

Curator/Director, Natalie Wood, dressed in a
costume based on one used by George Fulford in
‘marketing Dr. William's Pink Pills for Pale People,
offering some “pink pills” to a bust of Fulford
himself at the Museum's Fundraising Dinner held
fon September 23rd. The evening celebrated the
success of the Brockville business and featured
“testimonials” and a five course meal that drew
inspiration from some of the over 80 countries that
sold the iconic pills

Spotlight on Volunteers

Volunteer Cathy Baxter has been volunteering
at the Brockville Museum for almost two years.
Her cheery demeanor and the fact that she
refuses to be intimidated by a computer has,
made her an invaluable asset to the Open
Drawer project

Her wish to learn more about Brockville's past
is what motivated her to volunteer at the
museum, Little did she know that she would get
more than she bargained for! Since her start in
March 2014, she has spent over 175 hours
adding to our collection database by inputting
information about the objects and documents
that the museum owns. She has told me that she
finds the work fascinating and rewarding! She
comes by her love of history honestly. Her
father was George McNamara, one of the
original members of the Brockville Infantry
‘Company (1862), a well-known group of local
military re-enactors

Having a strong connection to Brockville
certainly helps with this type of work. Growing
up on “The Hill” (Schofield Hill, where the
water tower is located), she attended TISS until
‘graduating in the early 1980s. Like so many of
Us from small town Ontario she went off to the
city in search of opportunity.

‘Clutching in her hand a degree in office systems
administration from our own St. Lawrence
College, she worked in the insurance business
for many years. Interestingly, one of the firms
she worked for was one that specialized in
insurance for non-profit institutions that enrich
the lives of other, such as churches and
museums - with all profits being given back to
that community.

Like so many of us who had also done the same
thing, she and her husband reached the stage
where they were ready to return to a quieter life
From the Yonge and Eglinton neighbourhood in
Toronto to Pickering with the arrival of her two

daughters. In 2013 they continued that eastward

earn

move, this time all the way
hometown,

back to her

Cathy keeps herself busy - in addition to the
museum, enjoys kayaking, hiking,
snowshoeing, cycling, woodworking, knitting
and baking - and the occasional bout of
travelling! She admits to having Janet
Evanovich’s Stephanie Plumb books as her
guilty pleasure. But her true love is Max, not
hher ‘husband, but her guinea pig. Max
apparently thinks he’s more human than guinea,
pig - reinforced by the “Some Pig” sign on his
cage (a reference to E. B, White's book
Charlotte's Web).

she

Sulited by VK

‘The Government of
Ontario's annual
Volunteer Service
Award Ceremony was
Nheld on June 26th
Anniversary pins were
presented to: Jean
Mather, Barb and
Se Harold’ Healy, Carl
Knights, and Doug
Smith


Some Exterior Facelifts

Visitors to the museum may have noticed that
our board and batten section has been
transformed with a new paint scheme. A new
paint job was just one of our capital projects
approved by City Hall this year. In the coming
weeks we will also be installing two handrails at
the front entrance to help patrons better access
the museum, and navigate the sloped grade.
Early in the summer we also installed a new sign
at the rear of the museum facing Hardy Park,
thanks to a donation from the Friends of the
Brockville Museum,

H)
Museum Curator/Diector, Natalie Wood poses. with
volunteers Bob King and David Duc atound the
museum's new exterior sign that faces Hardy Park. Bob
and David helped install the new sign and Harold Healy
{gave the old frame a new coat of paint.

Submited by NAW.

Page 95 of 136

Friends Executive News
Resignation

It is with sadness that the Friends Executive
announce the resignation of Jean Ouellet as
Treasurer and Co-Chair. Jean has served in
these demanding roles for over five years, and
understandably it was time for him to focus on
his other volunteer activities. Although we will,
miss him at our Executive Meetings, Jean will
still be around the museum as a dedicated
volunteer. Thank you Jean for all your years of
service in this taxing role!

Friends AGM

A. brief reminder that the Friends Annual
General Meeting will take place February 13th,
2016 (the second Saturday of February) at 10am
at the museum,

Looking for Executive Members

‘Are you interested in taking on a leadership role
with the Friends? We're always on the search
for new Executive Members. Meetings are held
bi-monthly and last about one hour. Executive
Members vote on how to spend money and help
coordinate fundraising events to bring the
money in. The current executive includes: Doug,
Smith, Elliot Parker, Doreen Barnes, Shirley
‘Avery, and Ralph Newson. If you are interested
in finding out more, or signing up, please
contact staff or Doug Smith directly at 613-342-
7924.

2016 Garden Tour

The Friends
considering running the
“Hidden Gardens of
Brockville” Garden Tour
again in 2016. If you are
interested in helping out
‘or would like to offer your
garden, please let us
know!

Looking for Exhibit Sponsors
Thanks to you, 15 “People of Brockville” exhibit
panels are now on display in the museum,
Although we're not entirely done with “our
people" for now, we are shifting focus to our
Ianger exhibit goals

We have a very ambitious exhibit plan for 2016 and
2017, and we need your help to make it happen!
We're looking for sponsors to contribute to each of
the following exhibits to help pay for professional
signs and panels and related material costs. Each
sponsor will be recognized on a plaque in the
respective exhibit room. It is expected that
“permanent exhibite” will be in place for at least
five years, while temporary exhibits have a defined
end date.

Brockville’s River Story: (Permanent Exhibit) this
exhibit will include a look at the shift from industry
dominated waterfront to recreational/ commercial,
our boat-building past, and the river as the centre
fof our recreational pastimes. This exhibit will
compliment our “Brockville's Rail Story” opening,
in February, 2016. Total Cost $2,500

Ontario's Sporting Past: (Temporary Exhibit: July
September 2016) ths s a travelling exhibit from the
Archives of Ontario, but we will be adding
Brockville-specific stories to this display, including,
four Olympic connections and rowing traditions,
Total Cost $500.

How Brockville Celebrated the Centennial:
(Temporary Exhibit: January-December 2017) a
look at Brockville in 1967 and how the Centennial
was celebrated with community-building projects
and events, Total Cost: $2,500,

We need your financial help to make this happen!
We invite you to choose your exhibit and the
sponsorship category with which you are most
comfortable. Donations can be made directly to the
Brockville Museum and do qualify for an income
tax receipt forthe full amount,

Sponsorship Categories:

Contributor: $100

Donor: $250

Supporter: $500

Benefactor: $1,000

As always, thank you for your ongoing support!

Submited by NW.
10

Page 96 of 136

Fall-Winter Calendar of Events

‘Monday, October 19th:
Election Day! Get out and Vote!

‘Visit wy snuseums.ca/sit/election2015 to learn about

‘each party’ cultural platform

Wednesday, October 28th:
Bus Tour to Montreal

[Museum of Fine Arts: Beaver Hall Group Exhibit

Friday, October 30th:

Brockeille's Criminal Past Historical Walking Tour

@ 4pm & 7pm.

Monday, November 9th:
‘Members-Only Exhibit Preview @ 4pm-6pm

Monday, November 9th:
Genealogical Society Meeting @ 7:30
Learn More about the Open Drawer Project

‘Thursday, November 12
Tea with Amy @ 2pm
Diilorier & Brewers

‘Thursday, December 10th:
Tea with Amy @ 2pm
Old Fathionsd Toye

‘Thursday, January 14th:
Tea with Amy @ 2pm
Peatands

February TBD:
Exhibit Openings for
Brockvlle's Rail Story

& the ROM's Seeds in Disguise

Tuesday, February 2nd:

Annual Lecture Series Kicks Off
‘Tuesdays until March Ist @ 10am

For more information on any ofthese events please check
out our website a we brockillemusetn.com or call us

at 613-342-4397


immigrant Entrepreneur
Attraction
City of Brockville

Jacqueline Schoemaker Holmes, PhD
Project Researcher

al: To enhance the capacity of the City of Brockville to
successfully attract immigrant entrepreneurs

Page 97 of 136

Page 98 of 136

‘unding & Scope
.
i
=
Peernen

‘A formalized approach to interacting with local
immigrant entrepreneurs in order to help the City
of Brockville capture the most value from their
networks and knowledge

roject Objectives

+ Develop a clear understanding
| of local entrepreneur business

aie DOWNLOAD
THE FULL
+ Cultivate connections with y TOOLKIT

newcomer entrepreneurs, ethnic
business associations, and
nearby embassies

*+ Produce a Best Practices Toolkit
that can be shared with other
‘municipalities


ject Description

+ Identify
innovative ways
to attract
immigrant
entrepreneurs to
Brockville and
communities like
Brockville

2IMMIGRANT
ENTREPRENEUR @
2

ject Description Continued

+ Explore existing immigrant entrepreneurs in the
Brockville area and their networks

+ Identify opportunities to utilize these
relationships to attract additional entrepreneurs

+ Examine the approaches of other small
‘communities

‘+ Begin to forge partnerships with ethnic business

associations and embassies to encourage
attraction

Page 99 of 136

Project Activities
To Date...

Project Activities

+ Project began March 2016
ject be é

+ Scheduled to run 10 months 4%

+ Two phases of interviewing:

1 Interviews with local immigrant entreprencus
(began March 26, 2016)
= Thice interviews conducted so fa

2. Interviews with embassy personnel (o begin June,
2016)

Page 100 of 136

~

Project Activities Continued

‘First phase of data generation includes a
stakeholder pre-questionnaire

+ Evaluated existing knowledge and opportunities
for building knowledge capacity

+ Outcomes:
~ Excelent local stakeholder knowledge

~ Opportunities to develop knowledge about immigrant
population and needs

~ Innovative ideas presented by stakeholders

~

Project Activities Continued

+ Literature review conducted to discover relevant
existing toolkits and resources

+ Database of existing national and provincial
initiatives compiled

+ Contact with municipalities made (Belleville,
Prince Edward County, and Cornwall)

+ List of existing local immigrant entrepreneurs
compiled (ongoing)

Page 101 of 136

| Immigrant Entrepreneur
Interviews
"+ Note: VERY preliminary thus far
+ Preliminary data generation indicates that local
entrepreneurs feel welcome
+ Brockville is a personal lifestyle choice rather

than a strategic business location

‘+ Immigrants looking to innovate local business
and interested in drawing people to Brockville to
“put it on the map” as a beautiful place to live

‘uture Directions

‘Twenty interviews with local immigrant
catrepreneuss planned

Five interviews with Oxtawa-area embassies
CConsulations with relevant municipalities

Relevant ethnic organizations to be
contacted

Analysis D Best Practices Toolkit
Debrief Sessions & Fvaluation

Page 102 of 136

Page 103 of 136


Page 104 of 136

26-05-2016
REPORT TO THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE —
June 7, 2016

2016-070-06
PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO SIGN BY-LAW 84-89 M, PASCOE MERKLEY
‘365 STEWART BLVD., LUNA PIZZERIA DIRECTOR OF PLANNING
OWNER: JIM KAFENZAKIS, ANDREW MCGINNIS

PLANNER II

RECOMMENDATION:

THAT City of Brockville Sign By-law 84-89 be amended to permit a single sided, non-
‘animated, electronic message board, measuring 3.72 m*, to replace the existing manual
message board on the ground sign at 365 Stewart Blvd.

PURPOSE:

The purpose ofthis report i to provide recommendation on an application to consider an
amendment to Sign By-law 84-89 respecting the property with municipal address 365
Stewart Bivd., City of Brockville.

‘The application requests that City of Brockville Sign By-law 84-89 be amended to permita
single sided electronic message board, measuring 3.72 m’, to replace the existing manual
message board on the ground sign at 365 Stewart Blvd,

BACKGROUND:

‘An application for Amendment to City of Brockville Sign By-law 84-89 has been received
from Mr. Jim Kafenzakis, owner of the subject property located at 365 Stewart Blvd, City of
Brockville.

‘The proposed sign, as designed, is not permitted under Sign By-law 84-89, as amended.
Amendment to Sign By-law 84-89 is requested to be granted by Council for the Corporation.
of the City of Brockville. The application requests the following amendment:

‘+ Toallow for a new single sided electronic message board, measuring 3.72 m?, tobe
located on the existing ground sign at 365 Stewart Blvd

ANALYSIS:

Various sections of the Municipal Act provide municipalities with the authority to pass by-
laws to control signage and other advertising devices. Signs within the Corporation of the
City of Brockville are regulated under City of Brockville By-law 84-89, known as the “Sign
By-law’


Page 105 of 136

2016-070-06 Pago 2
Proposed Amendment to Sign By-law 84-89
Owner: Jim Kafenzakis

‘The application for amendment requests that City of Brockville Sign By-law 84-89 be
amended to grant a site specific exemption to permit a single sided electronic message
board, measuring 3.72 m’, to replace the existing manual message board on the ground
sign at 365 Stewart Blvd. Schedules “A” and “B" to this report identify the sign location
and provide a sketch showing the details of the proposed sign.

‘The measurements of the main sign will satisfy all other requirements under Section 8.0 of
Sign By-law 84-89, as amended, with a height of 7.62 metres and a total sign area of 24.2
square metres,

365 Stewart Bivd. is zoned C3-General Commercial Arterial and is located on the east side
of Stewart Bivd., north of the intersection of Stewart Blvd, and Parkedale Avenue. The
existing ground ‘sign located on the subject property currently has a manual message
board. The owner wishes to remove the manual message board and replace it with a
single sided electronic message sign measuring 3.1 metres in width by 1.2 metres in height
for a total area of 3.72 mv?

By-law 84-89, as amended, Part 5, Section 5.10, states that ‘iluminated or luminous signs
of an animated and/or flashing nature shall not be permitted”,

‘To-date, there have been eleven (11) electronic message boards authorized within the
City:

125 Stewart Boulevard, Brockville Shopping Centre (1999)
‘555 Stewart Boulevard, 1000 Islands Toyota (2001)

2510 Parkedale Avenue — Thousand Island Secondary School (2004)
2288 Parkedale Avenue, St. Lawrence College (2006)

103 Broome Road, Pro Oil Changers (2012)

2399 Parkedale Avenue, 1000 Istands Mall (2012)

Central Avenue, St. Mary’s Catholic School (2013)

Parkedale and Miliwood, Memorial Centre Sign (2013)

1515 Kensington Parkway, Academie Catholic Ange-Gabriel (2013)
2348 Parkedale Avenue, The Barley Mow (2014)

1900 Parkedale Avenue, A&W Restaurant (2018)

‘The above noted signs were evaluated from safety, traffic, visibiliy, driver distraction and
‘overhead clearance concems.

‘The sign design and location as proposed has been circulated to the Operations.
Department, Environmental Services Department, and Building Services Division of the
Planning Department, the Fire Department, Police Department and the Ministry of
Transportation. No objections were received. However, the Operations Department
requests that the electronic sign be restricted from displaying animated (moving) messages.
and the Building Division of the Planning Department requires that the necessary permit be
obtained for the installation ofthe sign, should Council approve the proposed amendment.

Page 106 of 136
2016.070-06 Page 3

Proposed Amendment to Sign By-law 84-69

‘Ouner: Jim Kafenzakis

‘Staff would also like to inform Council that no off-site advertising is permitted within the
‘Sign By-law. Therefore, should Council approve the proposed amendment, advertising
pertaining to Luna Pizzeria shall be the only advertising permitted,

POLICY IMPLICATION’

None.
FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS:
All costs associated with this application and any further requirements are the responsibilty

of the Applicant.

‘cONcLusiO!

Itis recommended that the proposed amendment to City of Brockville Sign By-law 84-89
be approved. The amendment is to to permit a single sided electronic message board,
measuring 3.72 m’, to replace the existing manual message board on the ground sign at
365 Stewart Blvd.

‘The proposed electronic message board is similar to other approved electronic signage on
lands within the City. This conclusion is provided in the recommendations section of this
report.

Maureen Pascoe Merkley, MCI RPP Andrew McGinnis, MCIP, RPP
Director of Planning Planner I

a

Bob Casselman
City Manager


Page 107 of 136

SCHEDULE “A” TO REPORT 2016-070-16


Page 108 of 136

SCHEDULE “B” TO REPORT 201 }6-070-16


Page 109 of 136

26-05-2016
REPORT TO THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE —

June 7, 2016

2016-071-06

PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO SIGN BY-LAW 84-89 M, PASCOE MERKLEY
2454 PARKEDALE AVENUE, MCDONALD'S DIRECTOR OF PLANNING
OWNER: MCDONALD'S RESTAURANTS OF CANADA ANDREW MCGINNIS
APPLICANT: SHAWNA PETZOLD, PERMIT WORLD PLANNER I
RECOMMENDATION:

‘THAT City of Brockville Sign By-law 84-89 be amended to permit a double-sided, non-
animated, electronic message board, measuring 3.53 m* per side, to replace the existing
manual message board on the ground sign at 2454 Parkedale Avenue.

PURPOSE:

‘The purpose of this report is to provide recommendation on an application to consider an
‘amendment to Sign By-law 84-89 respecting the property with municipal address 2454
Parkedale Avenue, City of Brockville

‘The application requests that City of Brockville Sign By-law 84-89 be amended to permit a
double-sided electronic message board, measuring 3.53 m’ per side, to replace the
existing manual message board on the ground sign at 2454 Parkedale Avenue.

BACKGROUND:
‘An application for Amendment to City of Brockville Sign By-law 64-89 has been received

from Ms. Shawna Petzold, on behalf of the owners of the subject property located at 2454
Parkedale Avenue, City of Brockville

‘The proposed sign, as designed, is not permitted under Sign By-law 84-89, as amended.
Amendment to Sign By-law 84-89 is requested to be granted by Council for the Corporation
of the City of Brockville. The application requests the following amendment:

‘+ Toallow for a new double-sided electronic message board, measuring 3.53 m* per
side, to be located on the existing ground sign at 2454 Parkedale Avenue.

ANALYSIS:

Various sections of the Municipal Act provide municipalities with the authority to pass by-
laws to control signage and other advertising devices. Signs within the Corporation of the
City of Brockville are regulated under City of Brockville By-law 84-89, known as the "Sign
By-law,

Page 110 of 136
2016-071-06 Page 2
Proposed Amendment to Sign By-law 64-09

‘Ownor: McDonald's Restaurants of Canada

Applicant: Shawna Petzold

The application for amendment requests that City of Brockville Sign By-law 84-89 be
amended to grant a site specific exemption to permit a double-sided electronic message
board, measuring 3.53 m* per side, to replace the existing manual message board on the
‘ground sign at 2454 Parkedale Avenue. Schedules “A”, “B-1" and “B-2" to this report
identify the sign location and provide details of the proposed sign,

‘The existing height of the McDonald's ground sign will remain unchanged and all other
requirements under Section 8.0 of Sign By-law 84-89, as amended, are being met.

2454 Parkedale Avenue is zoned C2-General Commercial Zone and is located on the north
side of Parkedale Avenue, east of the intersection of Parkedale Avenue and Windsor
Boulevard. The existing ground sign located on the subject property currently has the
‘corporate McDonald's logo, a sign indicating the hours of operation, a manual message
board and advertisement for McCafe, The owner wishes to remove the McCafe
advertisement and the manual message board and replace it with a double-sided electronic
message sgn measuring 1.92 metres in with by 1.84 metres inhelght fo total area of
im per side.

By-law 84-89, as amended, Part 5, Section 5.10, states that “iluminated or luminous signs
of an animated and/or flashing nature shall not be permitted’.

‘To-date, there have been eleven (11) electronic message boards authorized within the
City:

125 Stewart Boulevard, Brockville Shopping Centre (1999)
1555 Stewart Boulevard, 1000 Islands Toyota (2001)

2510 Parkedale Avenue - Thousand Island Secondary School (2004)
2288 Patkedale Avenue, St. Lawrence College (2006)

103 Broome Road, Pro Oil Changers (2012)

2399 Parkedale Avenue, 1000 Islands Mall (2012)

Central Avenue, St. Mary's Catholic Schoo! (2013)

Parkedale and Millwood, Memorial Centre Sign (2013)

41515 Kensington Parkway, Academie Catholic Ange-Gabriel (2013)
2348 Parkedale Avenue, The Barley Mow (2014)

1900 Parkedale Avenue, A&W Restaurant (2018)

‘The above noted signs were evaluated from safety, traffic, visibility, driver distraction and
overhead clearance concems.

‘The sign design and location as proposed has been circulated to the Operations
Department, Environmental Services Department, and Building Services Division of the
Planning Department, the Fire Department, Police Department and the Ministry of
Transportation. No objections were received. However, the Operations Department
requests that the electronic sign be restricted from displaying animated (moving) messages .
and the Building Division ofthe Planning Department requires that the necessary permit be .


Page 111 of 136

2016-071-06 Pages
Proposed Amendment to Sign By-law 84-89

‘Owner: McDonald's Restaurants of Canada

Applicant: Shawna Petzold

‘obtained for the installation ofthe sign, should Council approve the proposed amendment.
Staff would also like to inform Council that no off-site advertising is permitted within the
Sign By-law. Therefore, should Council approve the proposed amendment, advertising

pertaining to McDonald's shall be the only advertising permitted.

POLICY IMPLICATIONS:

None.

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS:

‘Allcosts associated with this application and any futher requirements are the responsibilty
of the Applicant.

‘CONCLUSION:

Itis recommended that the proposed amendment to City of Brockville Sign By-law 84-89
be approved. The amendment is to to permit a double-sided electronic message board,
‘measuring 3.53 m® per side, to replace the existing manual message board on the ground
sign at 2454 Parkedale Avenue.

‘The proposed electronic message board is similar to other approved electronic signage on
lands within the City. This conclusion is provided in the recommendations section of this
report.

Maureen Pascoe Merkley, Moy RPP indrew McGinnis, MCIP, RPP
Director of Planning Planner Il

Bob ahZ

City Manager


Page 112 of 136

ane


JR2-4356A

77
2
=
ful
i=]
¢€
ce
m
g
a
°
Fo]
fa
v
°
2
a
x
g
a
eo
3
a3


JR2-4356A,


Page 115 of 136

30 May 2016
REPORT TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE - 07 June 2016

2016-073-06
PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO ZONING M, PASCOE MERKLEY
BY-LAW 050-2014, 10 JOHN STREET DIRECTOR OF PLANNING.
OWNER: JUNO (BROCKVILLE) LIMITED JONATHAN FAURSCHOU
APPLICANT: (JANE ALMOND MCIP RPP) PLANNER |

FILE: 014-01 020.2016)

RECOMMENDATION

THAT Zoning By-law 050-2014 be amended to rezone property with municipal address
10 John Street from R5-2-Muttiple Residential Special Exception Zone to MD-Mixed
Use Downtown Special Exception Zone to permit those uses permitted in the MD-Mixed
Use Downtown Zone and a Community Health and Resource Centre, with special zone
provisions to recognize existing building setbacks and the parking area setback from the
street,

PURPOSE

‘The purpose of this report is to provide a recommendation on an application filed for
‘Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 respecting 10 John Street,
located in the block between St. Paul Street to the west and John Street to the east,
south of existing commercial buildings fronting on King Street West, and north of the
John St. municipal parking lot.

BACKGROUND

‘The subject property was originally developed as a showroom and extension of the
former Reliable Furniture store. In 2005-06, the owner applied for and received zoning
approval for the redevelopment of the building at 10 John Street as a residential
condominium. Demolition of the linkage between the King Street store frontage and the
rear building and various demolition work was subsequently undertaken inside the rear
building. However, no further work was done towards conversion of the building to a
residential condominium. The subject property has come into the ownership of Juno
(Brockville) Limited.

Jane Almond, MCIP, RPP, acting for the property owner, filed an application for
‘amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 with respect to lands legally
described as Pian 67 Block 30, Lots 40 to 42, 46 and 47 Pt Lots 37 to 39 and 43 RP
28R7984 Parts 12 to 18 RP 28R7455 Part 2 RP 28R13301 Parts 10 to 13, City of
Brockville, County of Leeds, with municipal address 10 John Street. The application for
an amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014 would rezone the subject land from R5-2-

Page 116 of 136
Prope Ament ening yew 0.2014

Multiple Residential Special Exception Zone to MD-Mixed Use Downtown Special
Exception Zone to permit those uses permitted in the MD-Mixed Use Downtown Zone,
‘as well as those uses permitted under the definition of a "Community Health and
Resource Centre”

‘As outlined in the Panning Rationale, date stamped 06 April 2016, prepared by the
applicant, (See Schedule “C”) the requested amendment would convert the existing
vacant building to a commercial office building. No changes are proposed for the
existing building footprint or building height. A 39 space parking lot to be accessed from
St. Paul and John Streets and associated landscaping is to be installed to service the
building occupants. Various changes to the exterior of the building, including but not
limited to, windows and entrances, ate anticipated, The major changes are subject to
review under separate application for Site Plan Approval

Official Plan and Zoning Information:

Official Plan: Downtown and Central Waterfront Area with Mixed Use Node and
Water Street Area Provisions

Existing Zoning: R5-2-Multiple Residential Special Exception Zone

Proposed Zoning: ~MD-Mixed Use Downtown Special Exception Zone to permit those
uses permitted in the MD-Mixed Use Downtown Zone and a
‘Community Health and Resource Centre. The special exception
provisions address recognition of existing building setbacks and
‘eduction of the parking area setback from the street

‘The subject lands have a lot area of 3,096.82 m?, with lot frontages on John Street of
46.7 m and on St, Paul Street of 63.7 m. The subject land is currently occupied in part
by a vacant two (2) storey building originally constructed or about 1982 as a showroom
for the former Reliable Furniture, with the balance of the site either paved or
undeveloped,

‘Schedule “A" to this report shows the location of the subject lands.
Schedule “B” to this report is a sketch of the proposed site plan,

‘Surrounding Land Use:

North: Lands located to the north are zoned MD-Mixed Use Downtown Zone and MD-
7-Mixed Use Downtown Special Exception Zone; occupied by older mixed
commercial/residential buildings fronting on King Street West

East: Lands located to the east, across John Street, are zoned MW-Mixed Use

Page 117 of 136

Proposed Amendment to Zoning By iaw 080-2014
\olonn Set

Waterfront Zone and MD-Mixed Use Downtown Zone; occupied by older mixed
commercialresidential buildings fronting on King Street West and residential
buildings fronting onto John Street and Halliday Street.

South: Lands located to the south are zoned MD-Mixed Use Downtown Zone;
‘occupied by municipal parking lot accessed from Water Street West. Those
lands south of Water Street West and across Water Street West are occupied
by a commercial building occupied by a restaurant.

West: Lands located to the west, across St Paul Street, are zoned I1-General
Institutional Zone and MD-Mixed Use Downtown Zone; occupied by the
Brockville Arts Centre and municipal parking lot.

Put

Participation

The application for Zoning By-law Amendment has proceeded through the normal
review process. On 03 May 2016, a Public Meeting was held by the Economic
Development and Planning Committee. Notice of the Public Meeting was advertised in
the Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper on 07 April 2016 and was circulated to
property owners within 120 metres (400 feet) of the subject property._In addition, signs
was posted on the subject property advising that the land is the subject of an
Application for Amendment to City of Brockwille Zoning By-law 050-2014. Comments
from City Departments and atfected agencies were also solicited. The minutes of the
Public Meeting are attached as Schedule “D” to this report

Comments Received are summarized below:
Departments and Agencies:
41. Planning Department - Building Services Division, B Caskenette, CBO:
"No Comments or concems at this stage.”
2. Environmental Services Department, S. Allen, Supervisor of Engineering
*...we are not opposed to the application.”
‘3. Operations Department - Conal Cosgrove, Director of Operation:
“...ne comments with respect to the application”.
4. Fire Prevention Office — Greg Healy, Chief Fire Prevention Officer

.no concems at this time.”

Page 118 of 136
ro1so73.06 Page 4

Proposes Amandment o Zoning By aw 0602014

Fes DA6. pene

ANALYSIS.

Provincial Policy Statement Considerations:

‘The Provincial Policy Statement 2014 (PPS) issued under section 3 of the Planning Act
provides policy direction on matters of Provincial interest related to land use planning
and development. Section 3 of the Planning Act further directs that Council decisions
affecting planning matters “shall be consistent with” the Provincial Policy Statement.

Part V of the PPS sets out various policies which describe areas of Provincial interest.
Not all policies in the PPS are relevant to the planning matter under consideration, and
thus, only those relevant portions will be referenced below.

From a review of the PPS, there are some relevant statements/policies under Part V,
Section 1 "Building Strong Healthy Communities’. The preamble in this section is a
general statement which reads, in part, as follows:

“Ontario's long-term prosperity, environmental health and social well-being
depend on wisely managing change and promoting efficient land use and
development pattems. Efficient land use and development pattems support
strong, livable and healthy communities, protect the environment and public
health and safety, and facilitate economic growth.”

This general statement is followed by more specific polices, including the following
references which are of relevance to this application for Zoning By-law amendment

Section 1.1 Managing and Directing Land use to Achieve Efficient and Resilient
Development and Land use Pattems, includes various policies addressing
sustaining “healthy, livable. and ~~ safe. communities" through
developmentiredevelopment within settlement areas which build upon existing
services and amenities.

Policies promoting intensification of existing building stock with full municipal services
located within settlement areas state:

“4.4.3.1 Settlement areas shall be the focus of growth and their vitality and
regeneration shall be promoted.”

“4.1.3.2 Land use pattems within settlement areas shall be based on:
a. densities and a mix of land uses which:
1. efficiently use land and resources;
2. are appropriate for, and efficiently use, the infrastructure and public
service facilities which are planned or available, and avoid the need
{or their unjustified and/or uneconomical expansion; and

Page 119 of 136

ams.o70.06 Page 8
rope Amerie Zorn yaw 8014

3. minimize negative impacts to air quality and climate change, and
promote energy efficiency in accordance with policy 1.8;
5, are transit supportive, where transit is planned, exists or may be
developed;
b. a range of uses and opportunities for intensification and redevelopment in
accordance with the criteria in policy 1.1.3.3."

Furthermore, Section 1.1.3.3 also states that “Planning Authorities shall identify and
promote opportunities for intensification and redevelopment where this can be
‘accommodated taking into account existing building stock or areas, including brownfield
sites, and the availabilty of suitable existing or planned infrastructure and public service
facilites required to accommodate projected needs’. Additional policies addressing the
‘matter of intensification are found throughout the PPS.

“1.3.1 Planning authorities shall promote economic development and
competitiveness by:

») providing opportunities for a diversified economic base, including
‘maintaining a range and choice of suitable sites for employment
uses which support a wide range of economic activiies and
ancillary uses, and take into account the needs of existing and
future businesses:..."

‘The requested zoning amendment would provide an opportunity for reuse of an existing
building with full municipal services, access to public transit, and located within the
Downtown and Central Waterfront Area of the City. Accordingly, the proposed
‘commercial use occupancy is consistent with various policies contained within the PPS,
as outlined above.

Official Plan Considerations

‘The Official Plan provides guidance on how to manage future growth, development, and
change within the City of Brockville.

The Official Plan goals are to create a sustainable city in terms of health and vitality,
that is economically viable and diverse, has high quality municipal services and
amenities, and is well planned.

Section 1.3 contains various policies which promote economic development and
‘competitiveness through the provisions of a diversified economic base, encouraging
‘compact mixed-use development,

Section 2.3 outlines strategic planning themes which include “A Sustainable, Healthy,
and Vital City’, "An Economically Strong and Diverse City’, “A High Quality of City
Services and Amenities’, and “A Well-Planned Responsive City”


Page 120 of 136

zms.o7.06 Pages
Foponeg Amendment Zing Baw 00 2014

Through approved objectives, the City is also to “revitalize the Downtown and Central
Waterfront Area as mixed’ commercial, residential, cultural, social, tourism and
entertainment destinations, while recognizing and conserving its cultural heritage
resources” and ‘provide for a variety of housing forms, tenures and levels of affordability
through development, redevelopment, intensification and infling projects.”

‘The subject land is designated under Schedule 1 - City Structure, of the Official Plan, as
“Downtown and Central Waterfront Area” with “Mixed Use Node” considerations. In
‘addition, the subject land is subject to the following considerations:

‘+ Schedule 2 — Design Strategy ~ Downtown and Central Waterfront Area, of the
Official Plan, identifies the subject land as being subject to Policy 4.2.3.
Specifically, the property is subject to policies pertaining to the "Water Street
‘Area’ and “Intermittent Street Frontage". Policy 4.2.3 is discussed further in this
report.

Section 3 addresses building a healthy and sustainable City. More specifically, Section
3.2.2.1 states among other things that development within the Mixed Use Nodes and
Cortidors needs to be transit supportive and accommodate a range of uses. This
section continues by envisioning the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area as being
the primary focus for the greatest mix of commercial, retail, and service opportunities.
More specifically, the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area is the primary mixed-use
Node and is intended to accommodate residential, office, commercial, community
services, cultural activities, main street shops and boutiques, and related uses and
activities that reinforce the existing character of the downtown area.

Section 3.2.6 outlines policies for the scope of development within the "Downtown and
Central Waterfront Area’, focusing on intensification and redevelopment, revitalization
of the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area and which place an emphasis on the
turban design and architecture being consistent with the guidelines contained within the
Downtown Waterfront Master Plan and Urban Design Strategy.

The general Downtown and Central Waterfront Area policies are further refined under
Section 4.2.2 where, commercial uses such as business and professional offices, eating
establishments, service and convenience retail and similar types of uses shall be
permitted.

Section 4.2.3, subsection 5, states that “All required parking shall be provided on the
site or in @ shared facility having adequate capacity within 150 metres of the subject
lands. Appropriate parking standards for the Downtown and Central Waterfront shall be
established in the Zoning By-law’.

Various other sections under 4.2.3 address development standards for new construction
which are not applicable to the proposed re-use of the existing building. However, the

Page 121 of 136

Propoaed Amenment to Zoning By aw 502014
‘oonn Sot
Flr D1 oman

development has proposed various improvements to the building, including but not
limited to windows and entrance improvements, landscaping, exterior building finishes,
parking, etc., which will contribute to the overall visual improvement of the existing
building and neighbourhood.

Based on policies above, review of Schedule 1 — City Structure and Schedule 2 -
Design Strategy — Downtown and Central Waterfront, as well as comments received,
planning staff are of the opinion that the proposal to rezone10 John Street for a wide
range of commercial and mixed uses is considered compatible with the neighbourhood
and conforms to policies contained within the Official Plan,

Zoning By-law Considerations:

‘The current zoning on the property with municipal address 10 John Street is R5-
‘Muttiple Residential Special Exception Zone under City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-
2014. The requested Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 would,
if approved, rezone the subject lands to MD-Mixed Use Downtown Special Exception
Zone to permit those uses permitted in the MD-Mixed Use Downtown Zone and a
‘Community Health and Resource Centre. The intention is for this building to be reused
as offices for governmental organizations. The uses sought through the requested
rezoning are consistent with the Official Pian, and the proposal represents a reasonable
‘opportunity for reuse of an existing downtown building,

‘The special exception provisions address recognition of existing building setbacks and
the parking area setback from the street (St. Paul Street). Since there is general
adherence to the design guidelines established in the Offical Plan, itis appropriate to
recognize these special provisions for this site.

Zoning by-law 050-2014 requires all parking for the proposed occupancy of the building
to be provided on-site. A total of 39 parking spaces can be provided, which exceeds the

minimum requirement for 31 parking spaces for a downtown building of this size which

is proposed to be occupied by offices. This also meets the intent of the relevant Official
Plan policy.

‘Should the recommendation above be accepted by Council, the zone would read similar
to the following:

“MD-17 Mixed Use Downtown Zone (10 John Street)

The uses permitted in the MD-17 Zone shall be those uses permitted in the MD-
‘Mixed Use Downtown Zone and a Community Health and Resource Centro."

The zone provisions for the MD-6 Zone shall be the same as for the MD Zone
except for the following

Page 122 of 136

Freeney aw 062014
Fla D14 ome

Minimum Front Yard Setback cam |
Parking Area Setback to St. 1.0m 1
Paul Steet |

All lands within the limits of the City for Brockville are subject to development approval
under Site Plan as established by City of Brockville By-law 33-86, as amended. 10
John Street is subject to terms and conditions of a Site Plan Control Agreement, File
1D11-364. This Site Plan Control Agreement addressed the various changes associated
‘with the proposed conversion of the existing building to a residential condominium. The
terms and conditions of the Site Plan Control Agreement were never completed,

However, given the current application for amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-
law 050-2014 and prior to further development of the subject lands, including but not
limited to exterior building changes, parking lot and landscaping, an application for Site
Plan Approval, including all applicable drawings, must be submitted for review and
approval. This process ensures development in compliance with applicable zone
provisions, once established, and appropriate design and engineering standards.

Consideration of Issues Rai Public and Agency Submissions:

‘There were no issues raised by the public at the Public Meeting held on 03 May 2016.
‘The following potential concerns were brought forward by staff at the Public Meeting
held on 03 May 2016:

1. Appropriateness of the requested zoning,

The requested zoning is considered appropriate for the site as the zone
recognizes the building location and allows for a wide range of commercial and
mixed uses and a “Community Health and Resource Centre”. In addition, the
proposed redevelopment addresses improvements to the existing building and
introduction of an on-site parking lot.

2. Compatibility of proposed uses with the surrounding neighbourhood.
10 John Street is currently in a generally unkempt condition, The proposed :

redevelopment of 10 John Street will improve the neighbourhood by bringing
vitality and improvement to the building and grounds.

3. Traffic and Parking.

The Operations Department has reviewed the proposed redevelopment of 10
John Street in terms of potential impact on traffic and parking. Mr. Cosgrove,
Director of Operations has confirmed that proposed redevelopment will not

Page 123 of 136

owor3.06 Page 9
Fropoud nade o orn yn 80-014
Fhe O10 eae

adversely affect the current traffic pattems or local parking as the existing streets
are able to accommodate the anticipated traffic and the site is proposed to be
improved with an on-site paved and landscaped parking lot. In addition, given the
propose site lay-out, the majority of traffic will be directed to St. Paul Street which
is classified as a “Collector Road’.

POLICY IMPLICATIONS

‘A review of the Provincial Policy Statement and relevant policies within the Official Plan
has been conducted and is provided within the "Analysis" section of this report.

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS

‘A complete application for amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 has
been received, including all applicable fees.

Future approvals associated with the development of the subject property, including but
‘ot limited to Site Plan Approval, issuance of building permits, and payment of all
requisite fees, are the responsibilty of the Owner andor Applicant.

‘CONCLUSION

The vacant building at 10 John Street is proposed to be reused for offices. An
application was filed to rezone the subject land from R5-2-Multiple Residential Special
Exception Zone to MD-Mixed Use Downtown Special Exception Zone to permit those
Uses permitted in the MD-Mixed Use Downtown Zone, as well as those uses permitted
under the definition of a “Community Health and Resource Centre” and to recognize
existing building setbacks and the parking area setback from St. Paul Street.

Following review of the PPS, the Official Plan and Zoning By-law 050-2014 as well as
‘considering the submissions received, itis recommended that Zoning By-law 050-2014
be amended to establish a new special exception zone affecting 10 John St. to facilitate
the proposed reuse and redevelopment,

Mla Dakly, <BE=—

M. Pascoe Merkley, MCIP, RPI J. Faurschou, MCIP, RPP
Director of Planning Planner |

B. Casselinan
City Manager

Schedule “A” — Report 2016-073-06
Property Location Sketch

1or 4s

ove steret F

PART OF LOTS 36, 37,38, 39,
410,41 2 46 AND 47
compres eta NO.e
‘CITY OF BROCKVILLE.
‘COUNTY OF LEEDS

ScaLE 1 300
§ ri 2 pe

{= ‘Pemvenaceen

Page 124 of 136

+, Schedule “B” ~ Report 2016-073-06

tule
Proposed Site Plan


‘Schedule “C” ~ Report 2016.073-06 Page 126 of 136
301 red icant pone
Planning Report prepared by Appl si >.
5 D

ES
ReceveD
APR ~ 6 2018

Planning Report
Application for Zoning Amendment John Street

1. Project Overview

‘The applicant proposes to amend the zoning from RE-2, a ste epecitic multiple residential zone,
to MD, mix use downtowm site specific, MD-x. The lands are legally described ae: fry part of
lots 37, 38,39, 40, 41,42, 46 and 47, Biock 90, compiled plan No. 67, being parts 16, 17 and 18
‘on 2817984 and secondly part lot 48, block 30, plan 67 being part 2'on 287456 City of
Brockville, County of Leeds. The full pin description can be found as attached Schedule ‘A’ to
‘court document file CV-15-121487-00. There are easements for access, utes and stormwater
also identified on Schedule A’ of the foreclosure documents, The subject lande have frontage
‘on John St. and St.Paul. At present the entrance tothe bulding ison John Street the apoicant
willbe changing that to St. Paul a part ofthe improvements tothe building. Access to the
parking lot wil also be from St.Paul

“The propery is designated Downtown and Central Waterfront Area and Water Street Area in the
Citys Official Pan.

‘The property has changed ownership and the current owner wishes to amend the zoning to
‘mixed use downtown zone that wil allow for government ofce space.

2. Provincial Policy Statement 2014

‘All planning decisions undertaken by an authority must be consistent wih the Provincial Policy
‘Statement 2014 adopted April 30, 2014, The Statoment' vision for Ontario's land use planning

system focuses on long-term prosperity forthe province and individual communities by focusing

growth in urban areas and protecting natural and cultural resources.

‘Section 1.0, Building Strong Healthy Communities drecs land use to achiave efficent and
rwsilent development and land use patterns in a sustainable fashion, Eficiont land
development is to be achieved by:

voiding development which may cause environmental or puble health and safety concerns,

+ promoting cost effective development patorns and standarde that will minimize land
consumption and servicing cast,

+ ensuring that the necessary infrastructure is in place,

Growth and development is directed to existing setlement and urban areas and intonstication is
encouraged. Development serviced by existing infrastructure forthe proveion of water and

‘sewage services is preferred and stormwater management best practices are promoted. The

statement specifically encourages tho re-use of existing properties andl bulldings.

Section 2.0, Wise Use and Management of Resources, outlines policies specially related to :
resources being; conserving bicversity, protecting natural heritage, cultural heritage and
archaeological resources. Natural hertage features are protected forthe long term.

Page 127 of 136

Page 2 of 5

‘Section 2.6, Cultural Horitage and Archaoology, protects significant buit heritage resources and:
significant cultural heritage landscapes and dirocts that those resources shall be conserved.

‘The subject lands have been devoloped since the 1980's and the curren proposal to update the
facade wil not adversely effect any f the downtown cultural resour

Section 3.0, Protecting Public Health and Safety, directs development away trom natural and
human made hazards. There are no hazards either natural or man made on orn the vicinity of
those lands.

‘The proposed development wil result inthe re-use of existing Inventory and is fully serviced, wll
‘not adversely impact any existing natural or cultural resources and is nota threat to public
health and safety. Therefore, the proposed project can be considered consistent withthe
Provincial Pocy Statement, 2014.

3.0 Official Plan

The City’s Oficial Plan designates the lands as Downtown and Central Waterfront Area and
Wiaior Street Area. Brockvile's Official Plan“ provides a general poly direction and planning
‘ramework to guide the physical, social, economic and erwvronmental management and growth
‘ofthe City of Brockville. Growth is managed in the City by directing growth to existing built areas,
and areas where inrasiructur is or where itcan be logically extended. A key intiative
‘expressed in the plan is to revitalize the Downtown Cental Waterfront area

Section 1.8 ofthe Plan promotes the maintenance, improvement and consorvation ofthe
cultural hetage resources of the Downtown and identi that it wil provide tho community
focus for social and commercial actives.

‘The City’s vision that

* Mayor and Council are committed to making Brockville a better place to lve, work and play
and to enjoy an exceptional quality of fe. Brockville ls committed to families, to an economy
‘hat offers opportunities to grow and prosper, to providing amenities that are eecond to none
‘and conducting our business in a way thats both environmentally and financially sustainal

‘The City identities planning goals and objectives inthis section ofthe plan into four specific
‘groups being: quality of amenities and services, sustainability ofthe City, the community and
People and tho City's economy. The proposal for zoning amendment complies with those
‘objectives by providing assessable social services, by adapting existing bul form to another
tse and improving the aesthetics ofthe bulking and, increasing employment in the downtown,
that reinvigorates the Cily’s core. Tho plan specially encourages investment and a range ot
‘employment opportunities that this proposal wil provide.

‘The Plan articulates Goals and Objectives in section 2.3 and outines how growth wil be
‘accommodated by providing: quality of amonites, sustainably of the City, the community and
‘people and the City's economy. The applicant has considered the foregoing and accommodated
‘he City’s prionies where appropriate If approved the project wil:


Page 128 of 136

Page 3 of 5

+ provide growth tothe economy, and
+ bring new business to the Downtown Core, and

+ use existing infrastructure and bul form, and

+ Improve facade of existing structure, and

+ not impact natural or cultural resources, and

+ encourages altemate transportation with the provision of bicycle facilities, and
+ provide public socal sorices,

Section 3.2.2.1, Med Use Nodes and Corridors , states thatthe “Dovmtown and Central
Waterfront Area is envisaged as being the primary focus for, and occupying the groatost mix of,
‘commorcialetalfservice and higher density residential uses. This area may also accommodate
‘new municipal and community service facilites." This proposal fully compli with this directive,

Section 3.2.6.1, Downtown and Cental Waterfront Area, promotes growth and redevelopment of
‘vacant land to encourage revitalization of this essontal commercial node, Urban design i in.
‘accordance with the Downtown and Waterfront Master Plan and Urban Design Strategy. The
‘applicant is proposing to change the facade to stucco exterior and add windows to tho

bulging. These changes will b consistont with the guidelines contained in the Design Strategy.
Section 3.3, Pestoning our Economy, encourages ofice employment with the Downtown and
Central Waterfront Area

Soction 3.4.1, Urban Design stresses tho importance of promoting excellancs in community
design. Elements to be considered wen any new development is proposed to include:

+ designed in keeping with traitonal character

+ promote ecient and cost-tfective development design

+ promote the improvement ofthe physical character

‘+ encourage design that considers, and viherever possible continues, existing and traditional
sveet pattems and neighbourhood structure,

‘Section 4.2 outines thatthe Downtown and Central Waterfront Area wil represent a broad
‘ange of land uses and wil encourage intensification and redevelopment. The plan envisions
professional ofices in his area and permits community service uses. Land Use and bull form
Policies ensure consistency withthe Downtown and Watertront Master Plan and Urban Design
‘Strategy and that adequate parking be provided. The projet will not be changing existing
‘setbacks and will provide adequate parking on site. The Improvements to the property consist of
‘pairs to aging structural elements and facade improvements, No element ofthe project will
advorsaly effct the Wator Steet area,

{Given the foregoing, the proposal can be considered to comply withthe polices, goals. and
directions that exist within the Ofcal Plan

4.0 Zoning By-Law

“The curent zoning of RS-2s the result cf «site speciic zoning amendment to allow for &
‘osidental condominium with a maximum unit count of 23. As the property has changed hands
through the foreclosure procedure the current owner wishes to convert the vacant structure nto
{government ofice space. This request will requir an amencmant tothe RS-2 zone fo the Mixed
Use Downtown zone,

Page 129 of 136

Page 4 of 5

‘The zoning of Mixed Use Downtown permits a variety of uses in Brockvil's Downtown Area
that includes numerous commercial and residential uses. This zone allows a Business and
Professional Ofce but does not alow a Community Heath and Resource Centre as a permitod
use, Zoning By-law 050-2014 detines Business and Professional ofice es:

“means the use ofa building or part thereo, exclusive ofa cnc in which one or more persons
‘aro employed inthe administration, management, direction or conducting of a business, non-
{governmental or notor-profit organization or where professionally qualified persons and their
staff serve clients who seek advice or consultaon, and may include a call conto,”

‘This definion specifically excludes governmental uses as permittod, The by-law also Includes &
definition of Community Health and Resource Centre as

“means a place where members ofthe public are provided wth health services, socal support
services, cultural, social or recreational programs or liefwork sills taining programs but shall
‘not include any other establishment or use otherwise defined herein.*

‘The applicants not proposing any exterior additions tothe bullding and wil maintain all exiting
setbacks. The funcional font yard willbe changed from John Street to St. Paul Stroet and
provide a front yard setback of 28.82 metros 0.0 mis required. Tho Interior side yard enstsat
'.93m and will meet the bylaw requirements of 0.00m. As this is @ through ft John Street
‘becomes the rear yard and recognition ofthe existing 0,00m setback wil need to be included in
the site specific zoning amendment.

Parking requirements of Zoning By-law 50:2014 fr office space require that 3.5 spaces be
‘rovided for every 100 square motes on the frst floor and 2.0 spaces fro every 100 square
‘metres on the second floor. This calculation may be reduced inthe Downtown and Central
‘Waterfront Area by 60 %. Tho parking required would be 38.5 forthe frst floor, 22 for the
‘second totally 61 divided by 2 results in arequiroment of 31 spaces, There aro 39 spaces on
the enclosed site plan. Therefore parking requirements have been achieved by the applicant

‘Section 3.3 of the zoning by-law outlines that no parking area can be located any closer than
5.0 metres to any street ne or the required stroet Ine whichever i lesser, Due to the existing
building location and the property configuration the parking does encroach fs places close to tho
street. The applicant is requesting reli from section 3.3 to allow a 1.0 metre setback tothe
‘street. The applicant wl landscape the parking area. Areas where the spaces do not encroach
will algo be landscaped to the greatest extent possibi.

‘As the proposed use is for govornment offices the amenciment requests fora site speciic
‘Mixed Use Downtown, MD-x, that includes the additional permited use of Commurity Healt
and Resource Centre

5.0 Conclusion

‘Tho proposed development wil uiize and renovate an existing vacant bung. I wil bing
‘employment othe downtown area and isfuly compliant with both the Provincial Policy
‘Statement and the Official Plan. The request lo amend the zoning toa ste spectc zone, within

Page 130 of 136

Page 5 of 5

the Mixed Use Downtown zone, to allow forthe establishment of uly accessible government

offices can be supported by

Imond MCIP RPP
Loom
613-889-1815

rections provided in the City's planning documents,

Schedule “D” - Report 2016-073-06 Page 131 of 136,
Public Meeting Minutes ~ May 03, 2016

faq Public Meeting
BROCKVILLE Economic Development &
NOTE GEE BLA Planning Committee
COMMITTEE MINUTES Tuesday, May 03, 2016, 6:00 pm

City Hall, Council Chambers

Committee Members:
Councillor P. Dery, Chai
Councillor L. Bursey
Councillor M. Kalivas
Councillor D. LeSueur

Other Members:
Councillor J. Baker
Councillor T. Blanchard

Staff:
Mr. B. Casselman, City Manager

Mr. C. Cosgrove, Director of Public Works

Mr. J. Faurschou, Planner 1

Ms. S. MacDonald, City Clerk

Mr. P, McMunn, Supervisor of Transportation Services
Ms. L. Murray, Deputy City Clerk (Recording Secretary)
Ms. M. Pascoe Merkley, Director of Planning

Mr. D. Paul, Director of Economic Development

The Chair called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
ITEM
1. 2016-054-05
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-Law 050-2014
10 John Street, Owner: Juno (Brockville) Limited
Applicant: (Jane Almond MCIP RPP)
Moved by: Councillor Kalivas
THAT Report 2016-054-05 be received as information and that a report on
this matter be prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic
Development Planning Committee at a future meeting.

CARRIED

Page 1 of 2

Page 132 of 136

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, May 03, 2016

Councillor Deery, Chair, introduced the public meeting and read from the
prepared required comments.

Mr, Jonathan Faurschou announced that notice of the Public Meeting was
advertised in the Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper on April 7, 2016
and was circulated to property owners within 120.0 metres (400.0 feet) of
the subject property. In addition, three signs were posted on the subject
property advising that the lands are the subject of an Application for
‘Amendment to the City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014.

Councillor Deery, Chair, asked that any person wanting further notice of the
passage of the proposed amendment should give thelr full name, address
and postal code to the Secretary prior to leaving the meeting.

Councillor Dery reviewed the procedures for the Public Meeting.

Mr. Jonathan Faurschou provided an overview of the proposed zoning
amendment.

Ms. J. Almond who is the applicant, stated that she is representing the
‘owners who will be re-purposing the building and creating accessible office
space. They plan to add a few windows and possibly change the siding. She
stated that the proposed new entrance Is to be off of St. Paul Street, and
they will be adding an awning. Ms. Almond remarked that the
redevelopment supports the Provincial Policy Statement and this use fits.
nicely into the city's Official Plan.

No persons completed the “Request for Information”

The meeting adjourned at 6:12 pm.

Page 2 of 2

Page 138 of 136

Report to Economic Development and Planning Committee
June 7, 2016

2016-072-06 S. MacDonald
Front Yard Parking Agreement City Clerk
68 and 70 Schofield Ave L. Murray

Deputy City Clerk
Recommendation

‘THAT Council authorize the Mayor and Clerk to execute a Front Yard Parking
agreement with Dianne Poelstra and Wayne Rowsome, 68 & 70 Schofield
Avenue, Brockville, for the installation of a two front yard parking pads; and

THAT encroaches onto the Schofield Avenue road allowance measuring 6.1
metres (20.0 ft.) in length and 7.32 metres (24.0 ft.) in width.

Origin

‘An application was submitted by Dianne Poelstra and Wayne Rowsome,
‘owners of 68 & 70 Schofield Avenue, requesting permission to use a portion
of the Schofield Avenue road allowance to create parking spaces in the front
of the subject properties. They have proposed two 6.0 metre by 3.0 metre
parking spots in the front yard. Since the front property line is located only
.06 metres from the existing stone porch, most of the parking is proposed
on the Schofield Avenue road allowance as shown in Schedule “A”. Photos of

the subject property are attached as Schedule "B” to this report.

Analysis

‘The Owners have received approval for a Minor Variance in order to permit
the front yard parking from the Committee of Adjustment (04/16).

Through circulation to various City Departments the following concerns were
noted;

‘+ The Environmental Services Department identified a potential concern
with freezing services. The initial request was to have the entire front
yard as parking which raised concerns as the curb stops are located
within this “paved” area they may be prone to freezing.

‘The applicants have addressed this concern by amending their
application to create two separate parking pads and leaving a grass
strip between where the curb stops are located.

‘+ The Operations Department requested the maximum length of the
parking pads be 6.0 metres as the length of a full size pick up is 5.9
metres.


Page 134 of 136

2015-092-09
68 and 70 Schofield Avenue, Front Yard Parking Agreement Page 2

Financial Consideration
‘As per the City of Brockville Fees and Charges By-law, there is a $135.30 fee
for processing the agreement, which would be deposited to 01-4-011032-
0603.

Conclusion

‘As the concerns of the City departments have been addressed, staff
recommend that the application for front yard parking be granted.

Mbiraa Lineal!
L. Murray 'S/MacDonald, CMO.
Deputy City Ck City Clerk.

D. Dick, CPA, CA B. Casselman
Director of Corporate Services City Manager


[-—_ Schedule “A” to Report 2016-072-06

Page 135 of 136

SCHOFIELD AVE


Page 136 of 136

Schedule “B” to Report 2016-072-06


