a Economic Development &

BROCKVILLE Planning Committee
‘GIYOFTHE TOO0ISCANDS Tuesday, December 03, 2013, 4:30 p.m.
COMMITTEE MINUTES City Hall, Council Chambers,

Members Present:
Councillor M. McFall, Chair
Councillor D. Beatty

Councillor M. Kalivas
Councillor D. LeSueur
Mayor D. Henderson, Ex-Officio

Staff:
Ms. V. Baker, Clerk's Secretary (Recording Secretary)
Mr. D. Dick, Director of Corporate Services

Ms. M. Pascoe-Merkley, Director of Planning

Mr. D. Paul, Director of Economic Development

Ms. S. Seale, City Clerk

Others:
Ms. T. Renkema, 104.9 JRFM
Mr. R. Zajak, Recorder & Times

‘The Chair called the meeting to order at 4:30 pum.
DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST

Ni

DELEGATION(S) AND PRESENTATION(S)

1. CARP - Age Friendly Designation
(Dawn Edgely)

Moved by: Councillor LeSueur

‘THAT City Council hereby endorse, in principle, the CARP Age-Friendly initiative to
‘support participation and healthy active lifestyles for older adults and all citizens.

Carried
Ms. Edgley offered a power point presentation.

She stated that CARP is looking for a commitment from Counell to support initiatives.
‘They are not asking for funding.

Page 1 of 5

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Committee Minutes -
Tuesday, December 03, 2013,

(CORRESPONDENCE
Nil
‘STAFF REPORTS

1. 2013-14112
Festival and Events Co-ordinator

Moved by: Councillor LeSueur
THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee recommend to Couneil the
establishment of a festival and events reserve account being $115,000 +1- surplus
generated from profit of the Tall Ships Festival- 1812 Tour, and further;
‘THAT the City enter into a three year contractual agreement with the Brockville and
District Chamber of Commerce/Tourism Office for a Festival and Event Coordinator
position with terms and conditions to be presented to Couneil at a later date for
ratification,

Carried as amended on a later vole
Motion to Separate
Moved by: Councillor Beatty

THAT the original motion be separated in to two motions.
Carried

The vote on the first part of the motion was now taken, and the motion was carried.
Moved by: Councillor LeSueur
‘THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee recommend to Council
the establishment of a festival and events reserve account being $115,000 +1-
‘surplus generated from profit of the Tall Ships Festival- 1812 Tour.
Carried

The vote on the second part of the original motion was now taken and deferred.

Moved by: Councillor LeSueur

Page 2015

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Committee Minutes -
Tuesday, December 03, 2013,

‘THAT the City enter into a three year contractual agreement with the Brockville
and District Chamber of Commerce/Tourism Office for a Festival and Event
Coordinator position with terms and conditions to be presented to Council ata later date
{or ratification,

Deferred to EDP January
Motion to Defer
Moved by: Mayor Henderson

THAT the motion to enter into a three year contractual agreement with the Brockville
and District Chamber of Commerce/Tourism Office be deferred to the the EDP meeting
to be held in January pending the provision of additional information concerning the
position's job description and criteria for measuring performance.

Carried
Mr. Paul spoke to the report.

Councilor Beatty stated that the position should be a support to local festivals and
‘events. He said that the individual should have a good performance record in this type
‘of endeavor and would need to be accountable. Mr. Paul stated that all criteria could be
included in the contract offered.

Councilor Kalivas asked how money would be put into the reserve account. Mr. Weir,
Brockville Tourism, stated that they are exploring the possibilty of a DMP (Destination
Marketing Pragram). He stated that the surcharge from the hotels would go into the
reserve account.

Councilor McFall said that she would lke to see the job description in writing. Mr. Paul
said that this information would be brought back to the Committee.

2 2013-09709
Revised Policy
City Property Transactions

Moved by: Councillor Beatty

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee recommend to Couneil the
‘endorsement on the revised policy of the process associated with City property
transactions inclusive of the revised Purchase of Sale Agreement.

Deferred
Mr. Paul spoke to the report.

Page 3.015

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Committee Minutes -
Tuesday, December 03, 2013,

‘Councilor Kalivas is concerned with the City maintaining control of the property
transaction and would lke the City to be able to withdraw at any point. Councillor McFall
‘asked if the City could not appoint the buyer as the agent and therefore the City would
be able to stop the process if they decide not to go forward with it. She also cautioned to
take in account how a buyer would perceive the City pulling out during the process of
the transaction especially if money had been paid out.

Councilor Kalivas asked if wording is available to add into the contract that would
prevent the buyer from going to the OMB. Ms. Pascoe Merkley explained that you can't
take away the right for someone to go to the OMB as its stated in the Planning Act.
Councillor LeSueur suggested that more time may be needed to review these
transactions,

Mayor Henderson stated that in some instances problems are not apparent until the
public is notified and by that time the transaction is in process.

Mr. Paul wil discuss with the City solicitor, items discussed at this meeting and bring
this back to the EDP meeting of January 2014.

NEW BUSINESS - REPORT FROM MEMBERS OF COUNCIL

Councilor Beatty stated that he would like the committee to encourage economic development
and related topics.

Councillor LeSueur stated that topics could be included on the agenda.

CONSENT AGENDA
Moved by: Councillor Kalivas
‘THAT the following items be placed on the consent agenda:
1. CARP-Age Friendly Designation
2, 2012-141-12
Festival and Events Co-ordinator
(First part of motion)
Carried

The meeting recessed at 6:02 p.m.

Page 4 015

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Committee Minutes -
Tuesday, December 03, 2013,

The meeting reconvened at 6:14 p.m.
MOTION TO MOVE INTO CLOSED SESSION (6:14 p.m.)
Moved by: Councillor Kalivas

‘THAT pursuant to Municipal Act, 2001, Section 289 Sub. 2(c), Committee resolve itself into
Closed Session to consider:

1. a proposed or pending acquisit

$n or depo:

tion of land by the municipality or local board.

Carried
REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE FROM CLOSED SESSION (

19 p.m.)

Moved by: Councillor Beatty

THAT the EDP Committee rise from Closed Session and the Chairman report that all
recommendations adopted in Closed Session, be adopted.

ADJOURNMENT
Moved by: Councillor LeSueur

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee adjourned its meeting until the
next regular meeting scheduled for January 7, 2014.

Carried

The meeting adjourned at 6:20 p.m.

Page 5 ofS

