Qa Public Meeting

BROCKVILLE Economic Development &

COMMITTEE MINUTES Tuesday, May 03, 2016,

@ 1000 1SLANOS Plani

City Hall, Council Chambers

Committee Members:
Councillor P. Dery, Chair
Councillor L. Bursey
Councillor M. Kalivas
Councillor D. LeSueur

Other Members:
Councillor J. Baker
Councillor T. Blanchard

Stat
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Ms,
Mr.
Ms,
Ms,
Mr.

B. Casselman, City Manager

C. Cosgrove, Director of Public Works

J. Faurschou, Planner 1

S. MacDonald, City Clerk

P. McMunn, Supervisor of Transportation Services
L. Murray, Deputy City Clerk (Recording Secretary)
M, Pascoe Merkley, Director of Planning

D. Paul, Director of Economic Development

The

Chair called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.

ITEM

1.

Page 1 of 2

2016-054-05

Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-Law 050-2014
10 John Street, Owner: Juno (Brockville) Limited
Applicant: (Jane Almond MCIP RPP)

Moved by: Councillor Kalivas

THAT Report 2016-054-05 be received as information and that a report on
this matter be prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic
Development Planning Committee at a future meeting.

CARRIED

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP) Public Planning Meeting Minutes -
Tuesday, May 03, 2016

Councillor Dery, Chair, introduced the public meeting and read from the
prepared required comments.

Mr. Jonathan Faurschou announced that notice of the Public Meeting was
advertised in the Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper on April 7, 2016
and was circulated to property owners within 120.0 metres (400.0 feet) of
the subject property. In addition, three signs were posted on the subject
property advising that the lands are the subject of an Application for
Amendment to the City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014.

Councillor Deery, Chair, asked that any person wanting further notice of the
passage of the proposed amendment should give their full name, address
and postal code to the Secretary prior to leaving the meeting,

Councillor Deery reviewed the procedures for the Public Meeting.

Mr, Jonathan Faurschou provided an overview of the proposed zoning
amendment.

Ms. J. Almond who is the applicant, stated that she is representing the
owners who will be re-purposing the building and creating accessible office
space. They plan to add a few windows and possibly change the siding. She
stated that the proposed new entrance is to be off of St. Paul Street, and
they will be adding an awning. Ms. Almond remarked that the
redevelopment supports the Provincial Policy Statement and this use fits
nicely into the city's Official Plan.

No persons completed the “Request for Information”

The meeting adjourned at 6:12 pm.

Page 2 of 2

