Page

30-40

Page 1 of 64
Revised Agenda: November 4, 2013

ra Economic Development and
BROCKVILLE Planning Committee
‘ervOF HE ooo SANE Tuesday, November 5, 2013, 4:00 pm

ity Hall, Council Chambers

Committee Members ‘Areas of Responsibly

Councilor M.Kalvas, Chair Economic Development Economic Development

Couneillr J. Baker Planning ‘Advisory Team

Councilor T. Blanchard Chamber of Commerce Museum Board

Councillor M. MeFall DBIA brary Board

Mayor D. Henderson, Heritage Brockville ‘Acts Centre

ExOfficio Tourism
COMMITTEE AGENDA

DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST

DELEGATION(S) AND PRESENTATION(S)

1

2

Brockville Public Library Board
(Ms. Leah Wales, Chair)

‘Ms. Wales will present the Brockville Public Library Strategic Plan to the
Committee.

‘The Future of Tourism in the City of Brockville
Request for Funding
Brackville Chamber of Commerce-Tourism

‘Ms. MacDonald, Mr. Brett and Mr. Weir will make a presentation to the
Committee on the future of Tourism in the City of Brockville.

Inventory of City's Heritage Resources
(Mr. Paul Bullock, Chair Heritage Brockville)

Mr. Bullock will address the Committee regarding the designation of additional
properties as cultural heritage value or interest.

Pago 2 01 64

Economic Development and Planning Committee
November 5, 2013,

(CORRESPONDENCE

41-44 1, Inventory of City's Heritage Resources
Heritage Brockville

THAT Council hereby designate the following properties to be of cultural value
or interest:

2 King St. E
6/10 King St E
10/12 King St.
18.22 King St E
25 King St E

44 King St

62, 64 King St E
65 King St E
67-75 King St E
68 King St E
70King St E

77, 79 King St.
80 King St E
8284 King St. E
86/88/90 K. E.

87 King St
92 King St E

93, 95 King St E
100 King St

108 King St
112 King St
117 King St
119 King St
126 King St
127 King St
129 King St
131-198 King St.
132.140 King St.
149 King St

151 King St
152 King St
155 King St
159 King St
160 King St
184 King St
185 King St
186 King St

rmmmmmmm

Pra ammmmm

Page 3 of 64

Economic Development and Planning Committee
November 5, 2013,

176 King St
181 King St
189 King St
196 King St
201 King St
207 King St
213 King St
222 King St.
223 King St.
225 King St
236 King St
252 King St
254 King St
250 King St
272 King St
276 King St
280 King St

and

THAT the City Clerk be directed to add the above noted properties to the
‘Municipal Register of Cultural Heritage Properties; and

THAT the necessary by-law be enacted.
‘STAFF REPORTS

45-58 1. 2013-123-11
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-Law 194-94
Vacant Lot East of Leon's, City of Brockville
‘Owner: McKercher Holdings Limited
Agent: Cathy Couture and Nancy Ker

THAT Zoning By-law 194-94 be amended to rezone lands described as Part
of Lots 24 to 27, Block 44, Plan 67, being Parts 1 and 2 on Registered Plan
28R- 14064 from C2D - General Commercial Downtown Zone to T-C2D-X1-2,
General Downtown Zone to permit a chip wagon to be located on the subject
lands for a temporary period of three (3) years, in addition to the other uses
permitted in the C2D - General Commercial Downtown Zone.

59

60-64

Pago 4 of 64

Economic Development and Planning Committee
November 5, 2013,

2013-125-11
Youth Advisory Committee - Reduction in Length of Term

THAT Council authorize the reduction in the length of term for members of the
Youth Advisory Committee from two years to one year; and

THAT By-laws 009-2011 A By-law to Establish the Youth Advisory Committee
and 088-2010 A By-law to Appoint Members to Various Boards and
Commissions of the City of Brockville be amended as necessary.

2013-126-11
Renewal of Lease Agreement
Beattie Dodge Chrysler Jeep Ltd. - George Street Parking Lot

This report is being removed from this agenda and will be brought back to the
Committee at a future meeting.

NEW BUSINESS - REPORT FROM MEMBERS OF COUNCIL

1

Innovation Centre
(Councillor D. LeSueur)

THAT Council authorizes the addition to the Economie Development
Department work plan, the research and participation of the Director of
Economic Development for the City of Brockville, with the committee for
creating an Innovation Centre; and

THAT the Director of Economic Development communicate and input ideas
along with NRC, Invest Ottawa, Launch Labs (Kingston), United Counties of
Leeds and Grenville, the 1000 Islands Community Development Corporation,
Leeds and Grenville Computer Technology Centre, the local Ange! Group,
interested council members and other partners who might join; and

THAT the Economic Development Department help with and advises on
potential plans forward: and

THAT Council recognizes the importance of job creation that comes with
Innovation Centres, as per our Economic Development Plan of 2010 which
was adopted by Council, in which Innovation Centres are mentioned as a
goal; and

THAT hours were spent on the greatest event Brockville has seen in years,
the Tall Ships Festival and now the City’s most economical way to create jobs
should be looked at.

Page 5 of 64

Economic Development and Planning Committee
November 5, 2013,

CONSENT AGENDA
MOTION TO MOVE INTO CLOSED SESSION

THAT pursuant fo Municipal Act, 2001, Section 239, Sub. 2, (c), the
Committee resolve itself into Closed Session to consider:

1. a proposed or pending acquisition or disposition of land by the
‘municipality or local beard;

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE FROM CLOSED SESSION

THAT the EDP Committee rise from Closed Session and the Chairman
reports that all recommendations adopted in closed session be adopted.

ADJOURNMENT

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee adjourned its
‘meeting until the next regular meeting scheduled for December 3, 2013.

Brockville Public Library

Strategic Plan 2013 — 2018
... the short story

www. brockvillelibrary.ca


lw; Engage

We are connected to the community and they are connected to us.

Pe | Evolve B

We break away from our stereotypes and embrace change.
We are a vital City asset.

Experience Oy
We are the place to be.
People are excited to return and recommend us to others.

910 06g

aes
background .

our Community Survey

+ over 1,300 responses

+ available online and in hard-copy and

+ some demographics (such as youth and non-members) were targeted

+ personal presentations to the Rotary Club, the Lions Club, students

+ Interviews with stakeholders: Mayor, City Manager, Museum Director, YMCA CEO, Manager
Developmental Services

demographic results

Age ———

Respondents with Library Cards
1 - LUnaneattenr

eueee

2888

y9}08 obeg

aueeede

F rrr a | I

¢

"
"
—
Hy
in
tl
SSS
Ne
ww)
%,
nN

*,,
Sa ctes

3 /.
all

Members at Other Libraries

i
“lie j
\

Other reasons =

‘+ Non-Residents (location too far away, cost
of membership, membership elsewhere)

+ Time (too busy)

‘Technology (e-readers, computers/internet)

9106 o6eg

ee

wishes and visions

What would make you use the Library more?

Caste Seicetat
ee)
Paty
eons ERs
oo
cok 0
KesPopmNiotsorsEve
oN
Moe Cone
Sag
DVO SSecn
Sete ate
Mor heise Washo Bert! 6
i,
Pee Late tC)
ht
ieee
Py LS
oral
Nev Bids Up TT
conn ne nw nw

What do you think the Library could be like
in five to ten years?

91001 960

. overall the survey said “we LOVE YOU”

The things we like the best ...

‘Booka age alec, valet, easy To Wind

brary Space’ almamphers layout, organtzalon, ae

“General Coliecion Resources ge seecan ond vay, eionnon eon

‘General "goodness" evening, a resources

Wve, Cos, waeogames, ee)

‘Computer and Internat Accers (including WF)

‘nthe Sewices (eg, making holds, enlne aourig)

Tnieibrary Laan Program

engage | evolve | experience

»

991014 9660

ESE
... BUT you could be better ...

Identi

d Areas for Improvement

Wa

Tayout/Space’Atmosphera/Décor’Smell

Hours (esp. Monday)

Book Collection GenerallySelection

Parking

Tocation (esp. North End usage issues)

‘Computereintarnat (numberof, Functionally)

Faclios/Ease of Use/Guality of Books

Customer servicaStaft

‘Bresence In community Knowledge of programe

Cost of membership

engage | evolve | experience

y9)0z1 abe

Strategic Prio 's @ your library
\ Transform your library spaces
accessibility, functionality, aesthetics
\ Expand your access to services
business hours, fees, parking, kiosk, technology, resources
V Connect with our community
customer service, marketing, outreach, partnerships, City relations

\ Enhance our service delivery

staffing levels, professional development, work flows, communication

engage | evolve | experience

woot abe

Linking to the City of Brockville’s Strategic Plan ...

City of Brockville Priorities

Brockville Public Library Priorities

People ——=

}-——>—>> Spaces

Economy =<

Services

“Amenities

SSS Community

Sustainability <> >_ Delivery

32

oe

9 0p1 abe

‘es! classes

‘culture days
This Plan will help to ensure that the City
Brockville remals a healthy, vibrant, and
a strong

economy, and a focu\ on its people.

Community and People Analysis

‘The gaps analysis conducted for Community and People determiner
significant numberof initiatives with respect to family recruitment and Syracting immigrants. The City
Understands that population and employment diversticaion depends ialgely on attracting new skied

sides fo the City twas determined that the Gity should consider enhancing and expanding
existing programs to deal with diversification.

pat the City has undertaken @

engage | evolve | experience

9051 966

«highlighting the value of yor
for early literacy development

Early Development Index 2010
Leeds & Grenville

Community Profiles - Brockville
Children 0 ~ 6 yrs of age
School readiness

engage | evolve | experience

Leeds & Grewle

Sel be

xm ea eg
(tse wenn Corie

91091 960,

ee

what’s next...

The Library Board and Staff will be creat

g an action/ business plan

for each strategic priority including timelines, measures, outcomes,

budget implications and responsibilities ...

Siratepie Raton wai [aos | woe | wOIS | ToHe impiations

* Creates 5 year calection development alan, vy CEO To prepare or Bord
focusing on varity of formats inclding prin, eprval
aucio and electronic |

Increase collection budget by 10% per year to \s4 maple only yy fv Tanaal Badget
‘augment high demand titles and to continue at
took clacton S|

> Emance taf readers anny als rough 7 7 Taina Bet
avaiable workshops and webinars

= Develop readers avon as for avars v 7 7 Tapower a

* Trainal taffonuse of Books and downloadable |v | 7 Empower Saf
uo books

engage | evolve | experience

91041 960

19101 sbeg

Brockville Public Library

Thank you !!

from the...

Library Board

&
Library Staff

www.brockvillelibrary.ca

engage | |


( BROCKVILLE
PUBLIC LIBRARY

Community
Engagement
Survey

HERE IS A QUICK PEEK AT
WHAT YOU TOLD US...


Page 21 of 64

203 Community Survey

The Brockville Public Library (BPL) Board has completed an extensive Community
‘Survey as a starting point for the development of a 2014 - 2016 Strategic Plan,

We received 1,316 survey responses from people ofall ages, current library users
and non-users.” In addition, interviews were conducted with key community partners.

To everyone who participated....Thank You!

The MOSt —[rvonsoinm 2) | | | |

popular eae

Magan (Ten)

products ste

cos nau)

& services irs
@your sna
library... ees


Page 22.01 64

Strengths @ your library:
Top 10

9. Computer & Internet Access - including WiFi (3

10. Online Services - making holds, online a

“I love that if a book I want is not there, I have the option of Interlibrary Loan to
obtain almost anything I want. No library has everything. I rarely buy books so the
library is THE place for me! Haven't gone to a reader yet and I like books, hard copy
‘books, pick ‘em up and put ‘em down books. I hope that will always be available.”

Beautiful historic building.”
Wifi coffee and comfy chairs."

“Friendly, Peaceful environment. Fair selection
Passionate staff”

Page 23 1 64

Weaknesses @ your library:
Top 10

1. Not Applicable (18%)

Facilities/Ease

“Since I live outside of Brockuille, I find the fees to get a
library card discouraging.”

“J like everything but it needs more computers.”
aged décor”.

“The library could be a bit more visible in the
community. I wish they were open longer.”

Page 24 of 64

What would make you use
the library more?...

...more comfy chairs...better parking...
if I had a life...free membership...better
hours...kiosk in the north end...off-track
betting...newer books...don’t know...more
meeting spaces and cheaper...more
classics....cookies...more e-books...if I
had nothing else to do....Saturday
children’s programs...Tim Horton's or a
Subway...faster computers...rain because I
golf...jigsaw puzzles...newer movies...
better décor...if I knew where it was...
better lights and air quality...author visits
and lectures...


Page 25 01 64

A few immediate and responsive actions
from your Library Board and Staff:

+ Free library cards for al students attending school in Brockville: effective
September 2013 as a one school-year pilot project.

+ Atmosphere improvements: spaces are currently being made more accessible;
walls are being painted; comfy furnishings are being added as budget and donations
allow; cleanliness is being addressed.

+ Improved safety: we are installing a sensor light at the George Street book drop

+ In the 2014 budget, we are committed to increasing Monday hours and/or
remaining open every Sunday.

“Committed staff with an eye to the future of libraries.
Excellent children’s programs and innovative ideas.”

“Its super strength is the children’s area”

“Love what’s been going on with tweens and teens”

“Having the online library is a huge strength,
especially given that it offers eBooks on loan”

Page 26 1 64

Your Library in 5 to 10 years?...

“A hip and swinging place to go!! Libraries have the connotation of being “stuffy,
‘quiet, ond BORING!” o quiet area is fine for those who want to read/study but our
Iibrary has the space to serve both that as well as fun and laughter. Afterall,
Jaughter is something we all seek out to feel better. I's time to take the library into
the 24st century and olter its image -@ breath of fresh air isthe dection Brockville
should goto in 5-10 years. I think we are already heading in thot direction!!”

resources
ace

ie)
O
wn

Course

What's next?...

Your Library Board and staff will be meeting over the next few months to
create a final strategic plan based on your feedback. These are
exciting times as we plan the future of your Library.

‘Thank you for being a significant part of this process!
Please watch the website and in-library displays for the finished publications.


Page 27 of 64

Contact Info

23 Buell St. Box 100
Brockville, ON K6V 517
P: 613-342-3936
F: 613-342-9598

Website & Email:

Library Board of Trustees:
board@brockvillelibrary.ca

Facebook& Twitter:

www.twitter.con/BrockvillePL.

Hours

Sunday 1 pm to 5 pm
Monday 10 am to 1 pm
Tuesday 10 am to 8 pm
Wednesday 10 am to 8 pm
‘Thursday 10 am to 8 pm
Friday 10 am to 5 pm
Saturday 10 am to 5 pm
Closed on Sundays between Canada Day and Labour Day

Page 28.1 64

BROCKVILLE

PUBLIC LIBRARY
Strategic Plan 2013-2018

..the short story.

Vision
A vibrant community catalyst for culture, discovery and connections.

Mission
‘A welcoming, resourceful environment open for everyone to explore, learn, create and share.

Values
Accessibility | Collaboration | Diversity | Innovation | Intellectual Freedom

pes and embrace change,

em our stereoty

Strategic Priorities at your Library:

y Transform your library spaces
accessibility, functionality, aesthetics
y Expand your access to services
business hours, fees, parking, kiosk, technology, resources
V Connect with our community
customer service, marketing, outreach, partnerships, City relations
yy Enhance our service delivery
staffing levels, professional development, work flows, communication

Anticipated Outcomes

Welcoming, attractive, safe and inclusive.
‘An awesome atmosphere and environment,
You told us what you wanted your library to be,
We listened, we are responding.

People come in to the Library.

‘The Library goes out to the people.

Excellence, efficiency and economy...

the best City service we can deliver.

Finding the balance..

Resource allocation
Technology advancements
Facility Renovation
Collections: print | eResources

Space: collection | seating | meeting

Linking to the City of Broc!

Measures of Our Success

* Library use and memberships
‘Items taken home

* Visits to the physical Library

* Visits to the virtual Library
Business hours

= Computer stations

* Use of technology

Attendance at programs

* Customer satisfaction

* Partnerships and collaborations
* Revenue sources

* Staff levels and training

= Marketing plan

"Accessibility features

Fees review

ville’s Strategic Plan

City of Brockville Priorities Brockville Public Library Priorities
People [| 5 Spaces
Economy Services
‘Amenities Community
Sustainability “—]> > _ Delivery

Engage | Evolve | Experience

Page 29.1 64


HISTORY

+ Visitor information
+ Limited Merchandise- souvenirs

+ Small marketing budget

91008 266

WHERE WE ARE TODAY
Brockville Chamber Tourism recognized DMO for our area with the Great Waterway

Visitor information
Festival and Events facilitation/ resource- organization assistance
Grant and funding assistance for struggling but established events
More extensive merchandise brand Marketing g— oe
Festival and Tourism Product Development = VISITOR INFORMATION Ck NTRE
—Wine & Food, Tunnel, Cycling, Brock trail
Tourism attraction assistance
- tunnel, Doors Open

910 16 966,

WHERE WE ARE TODAY

Brockville Chamber Tourism employs 2 % full time, regularly securing
grants for additional staffing opportunities, including annual summer
ambassadors averaging 5 seasonal positions.


4000 Istange/ Mile

MARKETING

SPECIFICALLY OVER THE PAST 4 YEARS.

sit Just Drive By.
Drop In!

OTRONns

J

. Consumer Trade Shows

. Internet & Social Media

. Print, radio, internet and television marketing campe
. Distribution of promotional material

. Souvenir Merchandising

Hosting familiarization tours for journalists and trave
industry personnel

Festival and Event support (ticket sales, human res«
and facilitating marketing opportunities through leve
purchases).

Signage and way finding

(
(
v9 088 abe

WHERE WE ARE TODAY

Visitor information

More extensive merchandise and brand marketing

Festival and Events facilitation’ resource- organization assistance

Grant and funding assistance for struggling but established event

Festival and Tourism Product Development - Wine & Food, Tunnel, Cycling, Brock Trail
Tourism attraction assistance- Railway Tunnel

910 ve 966

WHAT INTANGIBLES THE CITY RECEIVES

Executive Directors Time
Chamber Board of Directors
Accounting and additional Staff support for events and festivals.

v9 ese a6

Vision

Proposed New Brockville and 1000 Islands Visitor Information Centre

Within a 5-7 year plan, the new Brockville and 1000 Islands Visitor Information Centre will be
linked to Canada’s oldest Railway Tunnel and Blockhouse Island with a vintage two story train
station housing the Brockville and 1000 Islands Visitor Information Centre on/near Blockhouse
Island.

This vision is in alignment with the goals of the work being proposed by the Railway Tunnel
Organizing Committee.

In addition to visitor information services, the new centre would house staff, a retail area, wifi caf
and an exhibit hall for special events

(
(
191096 a6

Interim Relocation

+ Interim Office Relocation

Real Estate Requirements
Square footage - presently have 1700 square feet
Accessibility compliant

Office space for 4 full time employees
Visitor Information Centre & Retail Space
Staff kitchen & washroom

Storage area

+ Other considerations

+ Public washrooms

v9) ze a6

a

WHERE WE WANT TO GROW - VISION

* Sports tourism attraction

* Coach Tours

+ Product development — Diving/ Cycling/Tunnel

+ Festivals and Events Training, Workshops, and
Manuals

* Grant sourcing and greater Festival/ Event marketing

+ Permanent Visitor Welcome Centre — Blockhouse
Island

19086 a6

HOW DO WE GET THERE?

* City commitment to Chamber for long term delivery of Tourism Services or return
Tourism services to the City
Required:
1. $30 000 annual budget increase for housing/lease/utilities
2. Special Events and Product Development Coordinator (Tall Ships Legacy)
3. City commitment and approval allowing Chamber to secure grant to retrofit
Blockhouse as permanent home for Visitor Welcome Centre
+ By leveraging all our partner relationships

VA Van .
XG reat cscs

waterway

South Eastern Ontario

ARiverQuesi®

19 06e abe


Page 41 of 64

HERITAGE BROCKVILLE

Brockville’s Municipal Heritage Advisory Committee

Brockville Cty Hall,

‘Box 5000, 1 King St. West, Brockville, ON, Canada KV TAS.

‘November 4, 2013

Mrs. S. Seale,
City Cer

City of Brockvile,
1 King St. West,
Brockville, ON
K6V 7AS

Dear Mrs. Seale;
SUBJECT: _Inventory of the City's Heritage Resources ,

Section 27 of the Ontario Heritage Act requires the clerk of every local municipality to keep @
current, publicly accessible register of properties of cultural heritage value or interest situated in
the municipality. In addition our new Official Plan, in Section 3.4.3.2 (pg, 3-38), indicates that
“Heritage Brockville shall prepare and monitor an inventory of heritage resources within the
City" and "the City shall maintain an inventory of the City's heritage resources to be used as a
‘guide for policy formulation and Heritage Brockville shall assist in monitoring the inventory and
recommending new properties to be included."

‘We request that the attached list of buildings become a part of Brockwille's Inventory of Heritage
Resources, to be kept on file by the City Clerk. These buildings represent an addition to the
buildings previously listed in May 2011. All the owners have received notification, by mail, that
their residence was going to be added to the Register.

Municipal council’s approval (normally given by resolution) is required to add cultural heritage
properties that have not been designated, to the register,

| wish to appear asa delegation atthe EDP meeting on Tuesday Nov. 5
Sincerely yours,

aul Bullock

Chait, Heritage Brockville

‘cc: Ms, M. Pascoe Merkley
Mr. J. Faursehow

Page 42.01 64

REGISTRY - King St East
neous | Boer Woe pou. | arcn | tistouc | comoxton
sare | Wacie | "Waure | “Wau
2king St E sone x
io King SE, eck x
10/12 King SF sone x
WA2King St, | 6182 | Chis FieitHowe & Sop woe [x | x x
25 King St E wood x
wkigsie [we [emwasrietemetie [way [x [x :
eapaking St& [6 120 | tone ones Hose woe [| A
65 Kings | 1890 | Minisers Manse for sone} x |x x
‘St John's United Church
67-75 King cE, | 1894 _ | Comin Temace wick |x x
King ste _ | 1895 | Dr. Neon Horton Howse tik [x [x x
Kings. | 1900 _| St John's United Church soe | x x
7779 King St. | c.1851 | Rober Bowie House sone | x |x x
SO King E |e. 1826 | Paul taster Howse wow | x | x x
2/84 King St sone x
$6890 KE. brick x
sr Kings | 1847 | steney Howe soe | x [x x
92 King StF trick x
siaskingse& [e150 | Thom & Crinim Camper [soe [x [x x
100 King SE. | 1471 [ wii & Augusa Swit Howe | wood | x x
osKingsce | 1690 | Richardt Eliza BickeHoure | ick | x | x x
Ui2KingStE | 1880 | Atexandra& EveAlian House | wood | x | x
117 King SE, |e, 1876 | James Reynolds House wie | x | x
119 King SLE. | 6 1876 | George Smart Howse wie [x [x x
126 King St. | 6.1869 | SheeldSenkler House stone |x x
127 KingSCE, |e. 180 [Charis & Willan DyerHowe | swore | x | x


Page 43.0 64

‘RuoIsTRY - King St East

129 King | 6.1852 | Richard Bradfield Howse tone
1prtaskingst [1095 [Brace Teme riek
p20 Kingst, [1056 [8 Lames Tere ‘wick
vo kingste [1s [Doig aztabeh sign | bie
151 King St. c.1876 | Henry & Btn Soper House | brick
taking ste |e 104 | Catcrine # Edvard Yok ‘rick
155 King St. | c.1830 | Bartolomew & Ruth Ann stone
Carley Howse
1s9King 8.8 | 1890 — | Law Comp, Thomas A. ‘wiekZ
Reynolds House wood
160 King SLE. [6.1880 | Rober Wade House brick
164 King SLE [6.1844 | Joel. Eason Howse one
16s King Sie | 1098 | Chaves & Kate Const House | sone
166 King SL. | 1885 | Rober Easton's Blacksmith | stone
Shop
176 King SE. [6.1833 | Samuel Reynolds House sone
181 King t.£. —| ¢.1840/ | John & Mary Gi House ‘rick
fo
189 King SLE. | 6.1876 | Richard & Mary field House | brick
196 King St. brie
201 King St _| 1871 | Edwin Clayes Howe trick
207 King Su. | c.1882 | Indian Clie home of Major | brick
James Walsh & wife Mary
213 King SLE | 6 1879 | Thomas & Janet Gilmour Howe | brick
222 King cE | 6.1850 | Pavick Muy Howe stone
223 King Sc &_| 1867 | Wiliam H.Jckson Howe stone
z2s Kings | 1869 | Ceder Cif, Richa P. Cooke | stucco

House


Page 44 1 64

REGISTRY - King St East

236 King St Wood
252 King SLE [c.1887 | Mary tne ReynolésHowse | wood
254 King SCE | 1887 | Thomas Shean House wood
260 King St E_[ ¢ 1891_ | Fordyce Kincaid Howe wood
z2Kingsc& | 1885 | Wiliam Evans Howe wood
776 King SE. _| 1895 | Coles Evans House wood
200 King St | 1917 | Fulford Home for Laden sone


Page 45.01 64

290ctober2013
REPORT TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE
OSNOVEMBER2013

2013-123-11
PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO ZONING M. PASCOE MERKLEY
BY-LAW 194-94, VACANT LOT EAST OF DIRECTOR OF PLANNING.
260 KING ST. W., CITY OF BROCKVILLE ANDREW MCGINNIS
OWNER: MCKERCHER BORTHERS (BROCKVILLE) LTD. PLANNER I
AGENT: CATHY COUTURE & NANCY KER.

FILE: 014-169

RECOMMENDATION

THAT Zoning By-law 194-94 be amended to rezone lands described as Part of Lots 24
to 27, Block 44, Plan 67, being Parts 1 and 2 on Registered Plan 28R-14064 from C2D
= General Commercial Downtown Zone to T-C2D-X1-2 General Commercial Downtown
Zone to permit a chip wagon to be located on the subject lands for a temporary period
of three (3) years, in addition to the other uses permitted in the C2D — General
‘Commercial Downtown Zone.

PURPOSE

To provide a recommendation regarding an application to amend Zoning By-law 194-94,
respecting vacant lands on the east side of 260 King Street West (Leon's) to be used as
‘a temporary use for a chip wagon an all other C2D ~ Downtown Commercial uses,

BACKGROUND

‘The subject property, adjacent to 260 King Street West, is zoned C2D - General
‘Commercial Downtown Zone. Since 2007, under a site-specific zoning, a chip wagon
thas been permitted as a temporary use on the subject lands. The approval for the
temporary use expired on 24 August 2013; therefore, the permission for the chip wagon
is no longer in effect and the zoning on the subject property has reverted back to a
C2D-Commercial Downtown Zone.

McKercher Brothers (Brockville) Ltd., owner of the subject lands has authorized Ms.
Cathy Couture and Ms. Nancy Ker to submit an application for amendment to City of
Brockville Zoning By-law 194-94 to reinstate a site specific zoning on the subject lands
to allow a chip wagon as a temporary use for a three (3) year period.

Ms. Couture and Ms. Ker purchased the chip wagon from the previous owner, Mr
Massey. It has been operating beside 260 King Street West since the fall of 2007.

Page 46.0164

2ors-123-11 Page 2
Proposed Amendment To Zoning By-Law 194-94

Vacant Lands east of 260 King St.W., Cty of Brockville.

(Owner: MeKereher Brothers (Brockville) Ltd.

‘Agent: Cathy Couture & Nancy Ker

File: D14-169

The details of the site specific zone, which expired on 24 August 2013, are attached as
‘Schedule “A” to this report for information purposes.

AA sketch indicating the location of the chip wagon at 260 King Street West is attached
as Schedule “B” to this report. Schedule “C” contains photographs of the site.

Zoning and Official Plan information;

Official Plan Designation: Downtown and Central Waterfront Area

Existing Zoning: C2 - General Commercial Downtown Zone

Proposed Zoning: T-C2DX1-2 ~ General Commercial Downtown Special

Exception Zone, adding a chip wagon as a permitted use for
temporary period of three (3) years.

Site Characteristics:
Frontage (King Street West): 30.5 m (100.06 feet)
Depth (average): 61.4 m (201.4 feet)
Site Area: 1,872.6 m* (0.46 acres)

‘The subject site is only a portion of the lands to which the former temporary zoning
‘applied, as a severance has occurred under Consent File BO4/11, creating a separate
parcel east of the property with municipal address 260 King Street West (Leon's
Fumiture Store). The subject site is extensively paved, and the chip wagon remains in
place despite the expiry of the previous temporary zoning.

‘Surrounding Land Uses:

North: Former Anglican Church zoned C2D-X1-1 General Commercial Downtown
‘Special Exception Zone.

East: ‘Seniors’ apartment building on Clarissa Street zoned R8-X1-1 Zone.

Single family residential dwelling (11 Clarissa Street), zoned C2D -
General Commercial Downtown Zone.

Convenience store and gas bar at the north east comer of Clarissa Street
and King Street West zoned C2D - General Commercial Downtown Zone.

South: Metro Grocery Store with associated parking zoned C2D - General
‘Commercial Downtown Zone.

Page 47 of 64

2ors-123-11 Pages
Proposed Amendment To Zoning By-Law 194.04

Vacant Lands east of 260 King St. W., City of Brockville

Owner: MeKercher Brothers (Brockville) Ltd,

‘Agent: Cathy Couture & Nancy Ker

File: D14-169

West: Brockville Gymnastics Academy (west side of Gilmour Street) and Rotary
Park zoned Open Space Zone.

Public Participation and Input Received

‘The application has proceeded through the normal review process. On 1 October 2013
a Public Meeting was held by the Economic Development and Planning Committee.
Notice of the Public Meeting was advertised in the Brockville Recorder and Times on 5
‘September 2013 and was circulated to property owners within 120.0 metres (400.0 feet)
of the subject property. Comments from City Departments and affected agencies were
also solicited.

‘A copy of the minutes from the Public Meeting is attached as Schedule “D" to this
report. There were no persons in attendance at the public meeting, and no public
‘comments were received,

‘The following comments were received from internal departments and agencies:

1. Conal Cosgrove, Director of Operations: no concerns.

2. Steve Allen, Supervisor of Engineering: no concems.

3. Brent Caskenette, Planning Department, Building and By-law Services Division:
‘no concems.

4, Sandra Seale, City Clerk: no concer,

5. _D. Cameron Moorhead, Bell Aliant: no concem.

ANALYSISIOPTIONS

‘The following section provides an analysis of the application in reference to tho
Provincial Policy Statement, Official Plan and Zoning By-law.

Provincial Policy Statement

‘The Provincial Policy Statement (PPS), issued under Section 3 of the Planning Act,
came into effect on 01 March 2005 and requires that Council's decisions respecting
Planning matters shall be “consistent with” policies contained in the PPS when
‘considering any amendment to the Official Plan or Zoning By-law.

‘The application currently before the Economic Development Planning Committee and
Council proposes to amend Zoning By-law 194-94 to permit a chip wagon on a
‘temporary basis in addition to the uses already permitted at the subject site through the
C20 zoning,

Page 48.0 64

2orsizt1 Page 4
Proposed Amendment To Zoning By-Law 194-04

Vacant Lands east of 260 King St. W., City of Brockville

‘Owner: McKercher Brothers (Brockville) Lt

‘Agent: Cathy Gouture & Nancy Ker,

File: 014168

From a review of the PPS, there are some relevant statements/policies under Part V,
Section 1 “Building Strong Communities”. The preamble in this section is a general
statement which reads as follows:

“Ontario's long-term prosperity, environmental health and social well-being
depend on wisely managing change and promoting efficient land use and
development patterns. Efficient land use and development patterns support
strong, livable and healthy communities, protect the environment and public
‘health and safety, and faciltate economic growth.”

This general statement is followed by more specific policies, including the following
references which are of relevance to this application for zoning by-law amendment:

“1.1.3.1 Settlement areas shall be the focus of growth and their vitality and
regeneration shall be promoted.

"1.1.3.2 Land use pattems within settlement areas shall be based on:
a. densities and a mix of land uses which:
a. efficiently use land and resources;
b. are appropriate for, and efficiently use, the infrastructure and public
service facilities which are planned or available, and avoid the need
{or their unjustified andlor uneconomical expansion; and
c. minimize negative impacts to air quality and climate change, and
promote energy efficiency in accordance with policy 1.8; and
b. a range of uses and opportunities for intensification and redevelopment in
accordance with the criteria in policy 1.1.3.3."

“1.1.3.3 Planning authorities shall identify and promote opportunities for
intensification and redevelopment where this can be accommodated taking into
account existing building stock or areas, including brownfield sites, and the
availability of suitable existing or planned infrastructure and public service
‘cilities required to accommodate projected needs.

Intensification and redevelopment shall be directed in accordance with the
policies of Section 2: Wise Use and Management of Resources and Section 3:
Protecting Public Health and Safety.”

"1.3.1 Planning authorities shall promote economic development and

competitiveness by...

) providing opportunities for a diversified economic base, including
‘maintaining a range and choice of suitable sites for employment
uses which support a wide range of economic activities and

Page 49.1 64

2o1s-123-11 Page 5
Proposed Amendment To Zoning By-Law 194-04

Vacant Lands east of 260 King St. W., City of Brockville

‘Owner: McKercher Brothers (Brockvile) Ltd.

‘Agent: Cathy Couture & Nancy Ker

File: 014-169

ancillary uses, and take into account the needs of existing and
future businesses:...”

The proposal represents intensification and utilization of the existing land stock. The
proposed property is located within close proximity to transit stops as well as easy
access to offer a service to residents and employees within the area and pedestrians
who utilize the Brock Trail through walking, cycling and rollerblading.

Given the above policies and considerations, it can be concluded that the proposed
temporary zoning by-law amendment to permit a chip wagon within the limits of subject,
lands located east of Leon's is consistent with the intent of the relevant policies
contained in the PPS.

Official Plan Considerations

The Official Plan designates the subject property as “Downtown and Central Waterfront
‘Area’ within the Mixed Use Node.

‘The Official Plan's goals are to create a sustainable City in terms of health and vitality,
that is economically viable and diverse, has high quality municipal services and
amenities, and is well planned.

Section 2.3 outiines strategic planning themes which includes “A Sustainable, Healthy,
land Vital City’, “An Economically Strong and Diverse City’, "A High Quality of City
Services and Amenities’, and “A Well-Planned Responsive City”

Section 3 addresses building a healthy and sustainable City. More specifically, Section
3.2.2.1 states among others that development within the Mixed Use Nodes and
Corridors needs to be transit supportive and accommodate a range of uses. This
section continues by envisioning the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area as being
the primary focus for the greatest mix of commercial, retail, and service opportunities.
More spectcally, the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area is the primary mixed-use
Node and is intended to accommodate residential, office, commercial, community
services, cultural activities, main street shops and boutiques, and related uses and
activities that reinforce the existing character of the downtown area.

Section 3.2.6 outlines policies for the scope of development within the “Downtown and
Central Waterfront Area", focusing on intensification and redevelopment, revitalization
‘of the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area and which place an emphasis on the
urban design and architecture being consistent with the guidelines contained within the
Downtown Waterfront Master Plan and Urban Design Strategy.

Page 5001 64

2013-13-11 Pages
Proposed Amendment To Zoning By-Law 194.94

‘Vacant Lands east of 260 King St. W. City of Brockville

Owner: MeKercher Brothers (Brockville) Ltd.

Agent: Cathy Couture & Nancy Ker

File: 014-169,

Section 3.4.1.9 states that the City shall require that infil developments be compatibly
scaled and designed to enhance the character of the area,

‘The general Downtown and Central Waterfront Area policies are further refined under
Section 4.2.2 where, in addition to residential dwelling units being permitted,
‘commercial uses such as eating establishments, service and convenience retail and
similar types of uses shall also be permitted,

In reviewing the above policy considerations, many speak to compatibility with and
character of the downtown area. Historically, downtowns have been the main centre of
all range and variety of commercial activity. More recently, mobile food vendors such as
the food truck proposed are increasingly appearing in larger centres, especially in
downtown settings where pedestrian activity is often greatest.

Other policies emphasize consistency with the urban design guidelines and
‘encouragement for quality development. As a mobile facility which is a chattel, these
considerations are not necessarily relevant, as a permanent building is not proposed.

Section 6.4.2.2, Temporary Use By-laws, allows for the City to pass a temporary use
by-law to allow the temporary use of land, buildings or structures for a purpose
‘otherwise not permitted by the Zoning By-law for a specific period of time not to exceed
three years. This section also states that it shall be the policy of the City that:

‘1. Atemporary use by-law shall define the land to which it applies, and shall
prescribe the period of time during which it isin effect.

‘The City may authorize a temporary use on a one-time basis or for a short

period of time on a periodic basis, where it is considered inappropriate by

the City to permit the proposed use on a permanent or continuing basis,

and where alternatives such as relocation are not practical

3. The City may pass subsequent by-laws granting extensions of up to three

years.

4, The City may extend this period by passing further by-laws, subject to the

specific policies of this Pian.

5. _ Inenacting a temporary use by-law, the City shall consider the following:
the proposed use shall be of a temporary nature, and shall not
entail major construction or investment on the part of the owner so
that the owner shall not experience undue hardship in reverting to
the original uses upon the termination of temporary use provisions;

li, the proposed use with the surrounding land uses and character of
the surrounding area;

li, the proposed use shall be properly serviced and not require the
extension or expansion of existing municipal services;

lv. the proposed use shall not create any traffic problems within the

Page 51 of 64

2orsz0-41 Page?
Proposed Amendment To Zoning By-Law 194.04

Vacant Lands east of 260 King St. W., City of Brockville

‘Owner: McKercher Brothers (Brockville) Ltd.

‘Agent: Cathy Couture & Nancy Ker

Fite: Dia-169

‘surrounding area, or adversely affect the volume and/or type of
traffic commonly found on the areas roads;

¥V. the proposed use shall provide parking facilities entirely onsite;

vi. the proposed use shalll generally be beneficial to the surrounding
community; and

vil. _ the proposed use shall conform to the policies of this Plan.

Where the proposed temporary use may not conform in its entirety with the
Oficial Pian, the City shall consider what is in the best interests of the public.”

Based on the polices listed, Couneil can provide for temporary zoning as the proposed
chip wagon does not contradict any ofthe above polices, The proposal does not entail
major construction, has not created traffic problems in the past and does nat change the
character ofthe Downtown Commercial Area,

‘The applicant has stated that the chip wagon will continue to look and operate as it has
for the past six (6) years.

‘The continuing operation provides opportunity for a take-out dining experience
downtown which will co-ordinate well with the increase in seasonal traffic, special
‘events in the area, and being just a short distance from the Arts Centre. On balance, it
is not inconsistent with the Official Plan's goals and objectives for downtown
revitalization to provide for a food truck on an existing paved parking lot located within
the downtown.

Downtown & Waterfront Master Pian and Urban Design Strategy

‘The Downtown and Waterfront Master Plan and Urban Design Strategy (DWMPUDS),
provides guidance on how to manage future growth, development, and change within
the downtown and waterfront area of the City. The DWMPUDS establishes community
Planning and urban design principals to maintain the downtown and waterfront as a
healthy, livable and sustainable destination in the City. Guidelines speak to
reinforcement of the existing scale and character of the downtown area, and provide
reference to a high level of architectural treatment for buildings.

‘There is no reference to consideration of chip wagons, food trucks or other mobile uses

within this area, as the focus for the strategy was on creating guidelines for more
enduring development.

Zoning By-law Considerations:

Due to the expiry of the temporary zoning, the current zoning on the subject property
has reverted back to C2D ~ General Commercial Downtown Zone, and therefore, the

Page 5201 64

2ors-123-11 Pages
Proposed Amendment To Zoning By-Law 194-94

Vacant Lands east of 260 King St. W., City of Brockville

‘Owner: MeKercher Brothers (Brockville) Ltd.

‘Agent: Cathy Couture & Nancy Ker

File: Dia-169

‘addition of a chip wagon to the list of uses permitted on the site would require an
‘amendment to Zoning By-law 194-94. For this to occur, a site-specific zone must be
created, in this instance, the T-C2D-x1-2 Zone. It is proposed that this zone will
recognize all standard permitted uses and zone provisions of the C2D ~ General
‘Commercial Downtown Zone, in addition to a chip wagon.

The continuation of a chip wagon occupying a small comer of an underutilized parking
area would be a logical fit for the site. In addition, the site has ample parking to
‘accommodate the patrons of the chip wagon as well as overflow for Leon's customers
Until another business occupies the space. Over the past several years the chip wagon
has served a large market of downtown employees, occupants of residential dwellings
within close proximity, travelers along King Street, and recreational enthusiasts utilizing
the Brock Tra

Staff is of the opinion that the three (3) year temporary zoning should be considered.
‘The temporary zoning granted in 2007 and then again in 2010 has only seen one
concem being filed with City Hall. The concem was in relation to the parking of a former
U-Haul truck which has since been removed

‘Should the recommendation above be accepted by Cou
to the following:

the zone would read similar

“T-C20-X1-2

|n addition to the uses permitted in the C2D-General Commercial
Downtown Zone, a chip wagon shall be permitted in the T-C2D-X1-2
Zone, for a three (3) year period ending (date 3 years
hence from date of passing of amending by-law to be inserted).

‘No additional storage for the chip wagon in one or more accessory
structures or vehicles shall be permitted.”

Council should be aware that temporary zoning can be imposed in accordance with
‘Section 39 of the Planning Act, R.S.O. 1990. At the end of the three (3) year temporary
zoning, the applicant may wish to apply for an extension,

POLICY IMPLICATIONS,

‘As noted in the Analysis/Options section of this report, the proposed amendment to
Zoning By-law 194-94 for the site located east of 260 King St. W. Is consistent with the
PPS and with the relevant policies of the City's Official Plan.

Page 53.1 64

2013-123-11 Pagk
Proposed Amendment To Zoning By-Law 194-94

‘Agent: Cathy Couture & Nancy Ker
Fle: D14-169)

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS
All costs associated with the use of the property to include a chip wagon are the
responsibilty of the owner/applicants. The City of Brockville does not currently charge a
licensing fee for chip wagons, however, property taxes are payable on the vacant land.
CONCLUSION

Following review of the PPS, Official Plan and Zoning By-law, itis reasonable to allow a
‘chip wagon on the vacant property east of 260 King St. W. ‘However, for the reasons
set out in this report, it is appropriate to create a site-specific zone to allow a chip wagon,

‘as a temporarily permitted use only, in addition to all other uses currently permitted
within the C2D = General Commercial Downtown Zone. This is reflected in the

Y
,
Le. Pascoe tri MCIP; irew Mc

Planner Il
Ba —— ——

City Manager


Page 54 01 64

SCHEDULE “A” TO REPORT 2013-123-11

Excerpt from Zoning By-law 194-94, as amended.

“T-C2D-X1-1 Zone (260 King Street W. - Amending By-laws 068-2007 and 066-2010)

In addition to the uses permite in the C2D-General Commercial Downtown Zone, @ Chip Wagon
shall be permited as a temporary use in the T-C2D-X1-1 Zone for @ period of tree (3) years
fending August 24, 2013, in accordance with Section 39 ofthe Planning Ac, F.S.0. 1990,

[No additonal accessory storage structures or vehicles forthe chip wagon shall be permite.

Landscaping in the form of a minimum of two (2) planter boxes shall be provided adjacent tothe
south and east faces ofthe Chip Wagon.”

Page 55.0 84

SCHEDULE “B” TO REPORT 2013-123-11


Page 56.01 64

SCHEDULE “C” TO REPORT 2013-123-11


Page 57 of 64

SCHEDULE “D” TO REPORT 2013-123-11

[al Public Meeting
BROCKVILLE Economic Development &
ervOFWe Te BARD

Planning Committee

COMMITTEE MINUTES ‘Tuesday, October 01, 2013, 6:00 p.m.

City Hall, Council Chambers.

Committee Members:
Councillor M. Kalivas, Chair
Councillor J. Baker
Councilor T. Blanchard
Councillor M. MeFall

Mayor D. Henderson, Ex-Officio

Staff:

Mr. A.

McGinnis, Planner I

Ms. M. Pascoe Merkiey, Director of Planning
Ms. S. Seale, City Clerk (Recording Secretary)

Others:
Ms. T. Renkema, 104.9 JRfm

Mr. R.

Zajac, Recorder & Times

‘The Chair called the meeting to order at 6:12 p.m.

ITEM

1

2013-110-10
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-law 194.94
260 King Street West, City of Brockville

(Owner: McKercher Holdings Limited

Agent: Cathy Couture & Nancy Ker

Moved by: Councilor Blanchard
THAT Report 2013-110-10 be received as information and that a report on this matter
be prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic Development and Planning
Committee at a future meeting,

‘CARRIED
Mr. A. McGinnis, Planner II, announced the Notice of the Public Meeting for Staff Report

No. 2013-110-10 was given in the Recorder and Times Newspaper on September 5,
2013, in addition notice was sent to various agencies and departments, a letter was

Page 1 of 2

Page 58.1 64

Economic Development and Planning Committee (EDP)
Public Planning Meeting Minutes - Tuesday, October 01, 2013

‘sent to owners of land within 120 metres (400 ft) of the subject property and a sign was.
placed on the subject property.

Councillor Kalivas asked that any person wanting further notice of the passage of the
Proposed amendment should give their full name, address and postal code to the
Secretary prior to leaving the meeting,

Councillor Kalivas reviewed the procedures for the Public Meeting.

Me. McGinnis provided a brief summary of the application.

No persons were in attendance at the meeting to speak for or against the application.

The meeting for concluded at 6:19 pm.

'No person completed the Request for Information form.

Page 2012

Page 59.01 64

October 29, 2013
Report to Economic Development and Planning Committee - November 5, 2013
2013-125-11 S.M. Seale
Youth Advisory Committee City Clerk
Reduction in Length of Term L. Murray

Deputy City Clerk
Recommended

THAT Council authorize the reduction in the length of term for members of the Youth
‘Advisory Committee from two years to one year; and

THAT By-laws 009-2011 A By-law to Establish the Youth Advisory Committee and 088-
2010 A By-law to Appoint Members to Various Boards and Commissions of the City of
Brockville be amended as necessary.

Origin

‘The Youth Advisory Committee has requested a reduction in term due to the transient
nature of its members. This committee is largely made up of students and young
professionals who find themselves moving if not for school for career advancements. It
is therefore hard to retain members much longer than one year.

Analysis

In January 2011 Council established the Youth Advisory Committee to gamer youth's
perspective and input on municipal and other issues facing City Council.

Due to the make-up of the committee it is hard to retain the young members for two
years. It is therefore suggested that the term be reduced to one year

Financial Considerations

‘There are no financial considerations at this time.

4 Ca Leal rm Ger ia;
SM. Séale TMiuray, deputy vf Clerc
D. he Director of Corporate Services pee City, Al


Page 6001 64

economic development

‘byob Regan ond Susoh M Gord

Business Incubation
A Catalyst for Economic Development

Although Caras has ees the mont Figure 1

resent county othe O8 due a sound ‘Typical Small Business Survival Rate

banking syst ter cal position, |
nd ble hosing markt, many muni

Palites have been devastated bythe ec

ome con Cte init ae wets
suchas Ons Wind, Sa
tS Proms Elgato came
fe Aste yng gen he oie oe
theme Wrath ames ss
TS cece provinl ovem- SOU Sait Cana Sl nd Ma Sed Erp ota Mah 208 |

mente ecoromic sit ha been
Tepfl bar many munispalis ue ok Wkly already have he parersips in what if, wit busines incubation you

ofthe wood yet Thy ae pre pls sw ould ince seve me fbn
Ingots come lives, seni {0 90percxtovera 10sec?
trae mismo fotipn coursed, Understanding the Challenges

{viaing rnc pus andra! 00 New Business What i Business incubation?
lands in pet bring ante lard Sal ies make wp over 48 nshon bss incon o>

tndeds or howard ofjobs. Bua percent workores in Canada _idcsomgrng busines counseling 0 he
nese things ely aay? The etm (over fve ilion people) nin pow enerener The nutri willy 2
‘onivesmentcan be lag, ytthe Ses ing at very State Over 100000 physica ation (hough not aways,

‘ycecanbe vr long And,can wea pew business ae crete every year in veal incubation requires no py
ford to wai? Ths is ott sogasst tat tis eau bowever, the reality that space) The fas ere however, ison

‘we top dong these things ater. hat ot fl within a e-yer period Inthe physi inextator,

we mustlook at iversifeation and ug- ft, 15 percent flint fs ye with

ment our cis to secure a susainuble only $1 percent wriving fe rst 9 sanaetnennnniennnnns
‘ezonomyforour municipalities. What years (se Figre 1) What if you could TN

an we do yt back the gst rol? hange these statics in your municpnl fom nce Cree veonsaloneey
‘Wat can smaller muncipalies ote ky and region? Would you? And, what tw trEomepens onsen CE

‘row and main thie econony’? would you pay ayer todo this? What 8 foot rom When cee
Surly ou probably ave pajobworoyourcommuniy? What meter rook me a

atliat you need rightnow tomake» ig worhtohave somenne come off ancjzun innate sah esos
sipniicantimpac 0 your community. Employment insurance (EI)er social athe edo ew td ob cob
Posies incubation ay be the most augzace? What ify could neeaae Swe Ng

afordabicondeficient way tocreste arya ateofbusines GO oven SUSAMMLEARDER taint
‘inabebusnesres sob within Greve eon? How aon Speen or DANSE Cr rion rnin nt
yer Community abd regin, you even 8 percent? Would you invest some Sit Pre he a Ce

Aine ad ek ov some pers And torres in can be wae cc
ms remount

‘avcust 2019 MUNICIPALWORLD 5

‘The services provided athena
torial pace, accesso acini
tive serves, abo, opi, phone, t=
ters, nd oer pial Busines vices
that ary bane would need = ncading
tres to business exports. The theaght
Tehind incubiton io provi a hese
services ota reduced te ding the fst
‘ar with creases every yer to prepare
thebsines for roution

‘Ar stated Wythe Nationa Business
Incite Association, "The gol of an
neater nt ony ens he smal
bins survives the sarap peed
wre they rena vera, but 9
praduce conden, sucesfl grades
thats well rounded inacialy and
secure thir knawledge of ow foun
2 pradcive busines independent.
‘win br ee years of Start-up.

Buliding a Local Partnership,
forincubation

To larch socal community
incbaton program, iil be important
fer the maniipaliy wo sek out pres.
Spell, reach 0 the acl Com
‘mony Flies Deveopment Compr
than (FDC) Sal Buses Emer
prae Centre (S8EC): hese organizations
re already doing virtual incaton,
‘wher ey reine ont Suc pa
‘eae ition cra o your sucess,
sth havea he human capital and
Frofesonal business counsellors that
eso inporian oth cuttin ro

coms They lho have aces oreounes
forte entrererenrs, om prorars ©
fading (an.

"You ean also ok wo the organi
tion foe partnership, inlding other
municipalities, provinal mies, ke
‘al busine anion and chambers
of eammere epiona innwtion sd
research cones colleps univers,
‘ce More partes brow onboard de
‘onsets higher evel of commanity
hpsgemen and sop ~ an reer
Tieton of acting the conuny
investments nocemaryt achieve susan
sy

‘Chances ae good at you may a
‘en have may these paresis in
pce. Stl the nea sep ae no forthe
Tainebeared,Inebation is lot of work,
uals les the pela reat
‘oon your invest

costs

‘Costs can range ra very let
cexwame is impos o research what
Inesbation ode the common neds —
ind what canal Theres vale in a
‘e-em inevbation model ees as
“ale in 20cm model an Beyond
‘Cons are depend on ung (ence
your pers ead he physical space
valable Mary munities have
‘Supls propery: Local parts may also
fame neta oie er wo othe. I
some instances, may he necessary 0
bl orexpnd to acommodte your

Page 61 of 64

chosen model Again i il dopend on
Sahat you ca fled and ar prepared 0
‘Ongoing operational ots may be

it by combination of program fees
Coed fom cet, nnd solide
tions potential peor desi
rated far provided by he maniipaly
nd oer panes.

Entrance into Incubation

‘Once the physical lcaton progr
ning and a arin ple, the nestor
Iran for elon Potential papas
will ad to i made aware oF fe nce
ation ropa inh a community
swarenes campaign that wil cade
‘verisign buses, and be ma
ing eer.

Tobe considered for entrance no the
program, prospec cts wil eed
{o meet sane ei, uch sot Bing
ina curent ease Tho gol is ceraniy
‘otto be in competition with andlor
rather the neva’ eis ot tise
‘usinetes out of i Bsements an gn
rages scserate hem, 2 the onnet
them th bea econame development
‘ices op then Rin suitable pce
(Most communities have torent snd
factories hey would ke led.)

The elisa ges troup some
screening with snes counsellors ad
‘works on developing basis plan
‘Once the pani developed its veted
tough wppropi estes partes, sch

te MUNICIPAL WORLD

‘Avcust 2013

3 Proje Detvery
‘thera roe Oabery

820 adisions commis, dete:
tine hci conchae (his is
ical understands the comment,
‘nds ible busines plan

Stayingin the incubator

Most residencies ar up to thee
years, but here re ian mol. The
ranae ofthe business may also dicate
‘he engi of acabaton For example
peshups graphic artist nocd nly 2
Teo yr perio: wheres the developer
‘ofa sofvar application or game may
need upto five years. i the nt of te
dy, he goal forthe cen rads
‘nd ol hse vaca storelroni, ak
ing rom fr the next cent oenter te
inesbator

Some ofthe criteria fr helen to
remain in th near ae show up 0
‘we, rovide mony finn ee
rent the erumsello, meet mesons
Ser out by bth te incubtor Saf and
‘het, ao rerain eachable~ thee
snes ew. And they must pay thei
rogram es

Graduation

‘Ones he cient ha full the crm
ofthe pepram agreement andthe
sage wher they o longer ned ine
on servis, thy enn slut
Expansion of th business ca aso lead
Ao gdunion, od thi ged hing
‘You do want be careful it allowing =
company expand several ties inthe
incaato By having good governance,
thatcan be avoided = eer the goa
ofineubaon sotto be lands; you
‘wan clin ogo

Having lear expecations is key.
‘Many inebator ave led they hve
slowed eens expnd seve tines,
{oe pot wher hey Deere the mai
source of evenue the cabtor. This
leads danter when ey do eve,
lenin Boing 3 age han expected
scant pace,

So, meting wilesnes wd ulfiing
genet alows for planned exis em
theincutetor Tore rato ron planed
‘xan this to is good thing = when
‘isa refetion of having god gove™
ance and polices Chen ho fi
ay fees, sow op for work, and meet
‘oesones most be removed fem he
‘rogram The goal ae sto create basi=

nese, 0 itis imponan to know when
{pl be lag itor to ake room
forthe next etrepreneur, Ao, you nev
er wan i hres people = yOu
‘ran them leave te ester beter
{han you found hem and aoe
ti seminaion can save to
che fer the entprencur a thf
isis "ough lve" for bese.

Conclusion

ines incubation progam are
Aesigned oscelerc the succes
‘evelopment of enepreneral compa
ries through an ray of ines spp
‘sources tnd eves fed both in
the intra nuh isnt of
conacs, Wit th el of urged bs
nes asian, enrepeeneus are bet
‘prepared oto busines es ii oe-
asf new ventures that ave a ats
than-average chance of exe

“The paybsck is enormoas On aver
ayo, 95 perce of incubate’ cons
rome, nd 87 pecent of inet
(austen remain in buses? The
‘ling commonity benefis of an scuba
‘orare healthy companies sccked
job prow, sda Signatur on
Investment fr ech economic develop
‘ment olla Spent. The companies that
‘radi ten to tay the region, bring
Inge jobs, econ desi. and
stronger soca rexposiiiy coat
‘ent eerily a win-win station.

‘As pote by Ed Hob, Caiman of|
se Canadian Assocation of Busines
Ineubson, “Busines neato ents
lp commas crest and retin Bs
noes tht pert bs, wealth es,
and exmomic development Ineiaton
‘ene ae not abou "ick nd morta”
or tel esate. They ac abou a process
hat mentors and ides enrepenerih
businesses to succes”

Boning Eee, Sere tun
2h ner ae mene
‘cme oan vane
‘soe Gn Fame Dosopns re

2 ig etc me it

2 amy Mate a emp
‘Row Teo Fest 22

Page 6201 64

CULTURAL i]
PLANNING

HOW-TO

Rediscovering the
Wealth of Places:
emunicpalcutural |

planning handbook for

Canadian communities |

Grog Backers book provides |
‘8 pracica troduction 19 core
planning concepts andoos, |
Including 8 methodoiogy for
culture mapping and me |
systematic ientfcation of @
‘wide range oflocal cult! |
fss0ts. A strong focus is

placed on the aflocive integra |
‘on of clue in planning

‘cross municipal epartments,
‘wih ok at some leading
Practices from Canada and
‘roune the wor.

|
|
Fone mn

‘A practical ow to" book on
‘Municpal Cuturai Planning |
‘and the Creative Cty concepts
for muricipaltioe of asians, |
‘Authored by Gord Hume, one
‘tthe teading pioneers ofthe |
reaive Cy movement in
Ganadan municipal govern- |
‘ment, bis book ofers practical
‘ideas and plens on how i
‘Canadian municipalities can
‘sdaptine emerging fourm
|
|
|
|
|

pila of sustanabaty” ito tole
panning, budgeting, decsion
‘aking, and commonly
leadership

$29.95 each
Pus aati wes,
snpong one eae
Cal the tol-ree order |
hotline ot 1-888-368-6125
‘oF vist our online bookshop

"“BookShop |

books.municipatworid.com |

"MUNICIPAL WORLD

sve tuatcne sr ce mst br an Fe Pag 6.064
inn i ese Ps t_Page el
AE - NATIOL POST «NES «CPN = MATS = ESTIG + PSSA ANCE» MORTGAGES ELSE» THD «CUTIE » REPRE» 105» SUSE
FRIED corres -ssnesic sus

ENTREPRENEUR
ir [bt ons nA] aig at ar wae poy

Invest Ottawa offers advice, mentors to help
businesses boom

‘The national capital region's economic development agency, which has a mandate to support smal and mediim-sinedbusineses as
faraway a Kingston hs developed a “triage” approach to assisting entrepreneurs

Business people with an tea, part-time operation, or executives rom «fly functioning enterprise can walk int the vest Ottawa
ccs and meet witha busines specialist who wil then determine their needs and what type ohelp to ote.

‘Business coaching, industry research, accounting assistance, university research contacts, venture capitalists and even entrepreneurs
{in osidence can be atsigned to el.

‘The move totrage incoming besineses was part ofa massive makeover that took place atthe crgaization in February 2012, when
{it changed its same from the Ottawa Centre for Research and Innovation.

‘With the name change came a new mandate: The organization wet from boosting the local technology economy to acting as lobby
‘roup and poet of contac fo allo the repan’sentreprenesrs.

“Those involved with the newly structured agency say the makeover has been welcomed and business is booming. “A majority ofthe
companies we have coming through ae jus people looking to start a service busines opt fod on the abl," said Andrew Moa,
anentrepreneur in residence at Invest Ottawa

ras terest con:S1 02S ave cere tice rete tlp- seas Sood @

sus rt Ona tes aes mart of bras boom] Fnac Pot Page 64 of 64
‘Our advice is early stage, just to get them going™

‘He sud more than 4,000 people attended Invest Otawa workshops lst year to lear how to start a new company. The organization
‘ts onthe workshops through ts entrepreneurship centre, dedicated to helping fehing businesses

For people with bigger aspirations, the organization can team the individual with one of 10 entrepreneurs in residence, industry

experts and saccessfil busines owners who work with the economic development agency to gue lglg businesses and help them,
expand. The goa isto drive any type of economic growth within the reghn by supporting ares entrepreneurs,

“Bvery mayor believes John Deere will ome in sn pt 000 jbs in thei ty. That's just not going
Haggis, one of the entrepreneurs working at Invest Ottawa

happen anymore,” id Bob

Mr. Huggins sold his newspaper archival company Paper Of Record to Googe nc in 2008 fr malon of dalars. “The knowedge-
based industry is where there willbe growth.”

Kevin Carol, Invest Ottawa's managing director of kinovation, sid what makes the organization unique among ther economic
evelopment agencies in Ontario ists abil to et entrepreneurs exact the help they need,

(Overseas manufacturing and international competition has forever changed the landscape of Otaws, which was known fr creating
technology titan. The future belongs to sealer more nimble rms, Mr. Carrel sid

“Wd be nice to grow a 1,000-pereon company locally, bt t's more likely we wil ee 30-,50-people companies emerge,” he si.
“You don't need tobe a multinational to take onthe world aay more

Invest Ottawa now has space to incubate 2s many as 40 campanies, though is currently hosting 36, and iis looking to increase that
space tobelp more businesses.

‘The refocus o billing businesses comes as Invest Ottawa rejigsthe way it handles international business development. The
‘organization now has a eam osx industry experts wise jb itis to attract business tothe cy from abroad.

Having the business development managers close by hasbeen a boon fr many startups, Mr. Carrol sid Being able to davon
‘manufctuing contracts abroad take advantage of international research partnerships, or even secure funding from US. oF
European investors becomes mach easier thanks othe contacts the business development managers provide.

Tavest Ottawa i funded jointly by the City af Ottawa and the Ontario and federal governments

Find Eireronsur on Facebook

Most Popalar|

business frist conc01¥ 1023 cna es a8ce ero hep sreste bard n

