Page 1 of 78

a Economic Development and
BROCKVILLE Planning Committee

‘EY OFTHE 1000 SLANDS Tuesday, October 4, 2016, 5:15 pm
City Hall, Council Chambers

Committee Members Areas of Responsibility

Councillor P. Deery, Economic Economic
Chair Development Development Advisory
Councillor L. Bursey Planning Team
Councillor M. Kalivas Chamber of Museum Board
Councillor D. LeSueur Commerce Library Board
Mayor D. Henderson, DBIA Arts Centre
Ex-Officio Heritage Brockville Tourism

Page COMMITTEE AGENDA

Disclosure of Interest

Delegations and Presentations

Destination Marketing Program
Brockville Tourism

Mr. Steve Weir will describe the Destination Marketing Program for
the Committee.

Correspondence
Nil.

Staff Reports

23-33

2016-130-10
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014
Part of Lot 11, Block 31, Plan 67

City of Brockville, 12 Victoria Avenue

Owners: Ian & Mary Jean McFall

Applicant: Brian Kendel

THAT Zoning By-law 050-2014 be amended to rezone lands
described as Part of Lot 11, Block 31, Plan 67, City of Brockville,

County of Leeds, with municipal address 12 Victoria Avenue, from
Ra - General Residential Zone to MD - Mixed Use Downtown Zone.

34-49

50 - 57

58-78

Page 2 of 78

Economic Development and Planning Committee
October 4, 2016

2.

2016-131-10
Proposed Amendment to Official Plan and Zoning By-law 050-2014
800 Stewart Boulevard, Brockville

Owner: Pentecostal Assemblies of Canada

(Highway Pentecostal Church)

Applicant: Brockville Montessori School

1. THAT Official Plan Amendment No. 5 to modify "Site Specific
Policy Area 4.8.4.1” respecting lands described as Concession
2, Part of Lot 16, Parts 1 to 3, RP 28R-3242, City of
Brockville, County of Leeds, with municipal address 800
Stewart Boulevard, to permit a private school and a day
nursery, in addition to the existing place of worship, be
adopted.

2. THAT Zoning By-law 050-2014 be amended to modify the I1-
3 General Institutional Special Exception Zone applicable to
lands described as Concession 2, Part of Lot 16, Parts 1 to 3,
RP 28R-3242, City of Brockville, County of Leeds, with
‘municipal address 800 Stewart Boulevard, to allow for a
private schoo! and a day nursery as permitted uses in addition
to a place of worship.

2016-132-10
Rockford Forest Subdivision
Pre-Servicing Agreement

Owner: Cathedral Enterprises Ltd.

THAT the Mayor and Clerk be authorized to execute a Pre-Servicing
Agreement between the Corporation of the City of Brockville and
Cathedral Enterprises Ltd., for various work on lands described as
Part of Lot 11, Concession 2, City of Brockville, County of Leeds,
being the Rockford Forest Subdivision, subject to finalization and
acceptance by staff of the servicing design and issuance of any
required Ministry of the Environment and Climate Change (MOECC)
approvals.

2016-133-10
Destination Marketing Fee
Loan Agreement

Page 8 of 78

Economic Development and Planning Committee
October 4, 2016

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee
recommend that Council enter into a loan agreement (with
interest), with a not-for-profit organization, known as Brockville
Accommodation and Attraction Partners, in the amount of $50,000
with milestones and repayment terms to be negotiated and
presented to Council

THAT the subject funds be utilized to establish the governance
structure for a Brockville Destination Marketing fee program utilizing
the 3% Bed Tax for tourism related programming and tourism
product development, and further that the funds be secured from
general cash with an appropriate loan receivable account to be
established

New Business - Reports from Members of Council
Nil.

Consent Agenda
Brainstorming

Adjournment

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee adjourned its

‘meeting until the next regular meeting scheduled for November 1,
2016.

Brockville

Destination Marketing Program


Destination Marketing

Program

What is it?

In Ontario, Destination Marketing Programs (DMPs) are
voluntary industry-led initiatives that have existed in several
destinations at different points in time since 2004.

An amount remitted by providers of transient accommodation in
a destination or region, for the purpose of supporting regional
tourism marketing and development.

8210.5 98e4

Destination Marketing

Program

History

Historically, participating hotels have voluntarily remitted fees
(3% of room revenues) to their accommodation industry
association who then transferred funds to a local or regional
non-profit destination marketing organization to promote their
city or region

Participating attractions remit a 50 cent per ticket per paying
guest or an annual partnership fee

82109 98e4

Destination Marketing

Program

Tourism Funding

In 2012, the Ontario Government established a yearly fund of
approximately $200,000. This fund can be accessed by
participating regions within RTO 9 (The Great Waterway)
through partnership proposal submission.

Brockville has benefited from these programs through
partnership proposals over the past few years:

1. City signs on 401 — East and West

2. Brockville 401 Profile Signs — East and West

3. Brockville Tourism Mobile Friendly Application

4. Garden Tourism Initiative

5. Aquatarium Banner and Billboard Program

6. Search Engine Optimization Programs

7. Downtown Shuttle Bus

8210 2 9804

Destination Marketing
Program

8210.8 96e3

Destination Marketing

Program

Today

Cities and regions that have successfully implemented a
Destination Marketing Program

Ottawa Cornwall

Gananoque Kingston

Hastings County — Prince Edward County
Bay of Quinte Toronto

8210.6 9604

Destination Marketing

Program

Kingston
DMP 1. 2 Million

8210 04 abe


Destination Marketing

Program

Gananoque
DMP $250 000

8210.24 9604

Destination Marketing

Program

Brockville
> DMP $0

Destination Marketing

Program

Brief History

> In 2009, a DMP was started in Brockville with only one hotel
participating.

> In 2010-11, Brockville’s DMP was dissolved with the start of
RTOS9, The Great Waterway.

» Since that time Brockville has been trying to re-establish a DMP for
Brockville and 1000 Islands Region without success.

8210 ph 9be4

Destination Marketing

Program

Recognizing the need for and, the value of having a DMP for the
Brockville and 1000 Islands Region, an independent,
provincially incorporated not-for-profit group is being set
up to overseeing the implementation and management of the
DMP.

The organization will be know as Brockville Accommodation and
Attraction Partners (BAAP) and made up of an Executive
Director governed by a nine member Board of Directors

8210 54 9be4

Destination Marketing

Program

Brockville Accommodation and Attraction Partners —
Remittance Structure

Accommodation Partner Remittance
+ 3% fee PAID by the “Guest”
Attraction Partner Remittance

» 650 cents per ticket sold PAID by “Guest” or
an annual partnership fee

8210 94 9be4

Destination Marketing

Program

Brockville Accommodation and Attraction Partners —
Partner Benefit

Vv vv

vv

Participation in a broader level marketing program

Participation in advertising, marketing, entertainment and special
events development, product development and research activities
Participation in marketing initiatives that budgets may otherwise
limit i.e. Television and Radio Campaigns

Broader brand recognition

Have a say in shaping the Brockville and the 1000 Islands Tourism
Sector

8210 24 9be4

Destination Marketing

Program

Brockville Accommodation and Attraction Partners —
City of Brockville and 1000 Islands Region Benefits

» More visitors to Brockville and 1000 Islands Region

» More tourism dollars spent with Brockville businesses

> More overnight stays - “more heads in beds”

» More consistent marketing programs resulting in a higher profile
for the City of Brockville and the 1000 Islands Region

8210 84 904

(2393492

Destination Marketing

Program

Brockville Accommodation and Attraction Partners —
Revenue Projections

» Accommodation Partners: Based on 2014 and 2015 PKF trends DMP
revenue for 2017 is projected at $226,568

» Attraction Partners:

> Aquatarium: Based on a projection of 60 000 visitors, DMP revenue
for 2017 is projected at $30 000.00

> Brockville Arts Centre: Based on a projection of 40 000 visitors, DMP
revenue for 2017 is projected at $20 000.00

8210 64 abe

Destination Marketing

Program

Brockville Accommodation and Attraction Partners —
Request to the City of Brockville

Brockville Accommodation and Attraction Partners is asking
the City of Brockville for a short-term start up loan in the
amount of $50,000 to assist with administrative and operating
expenses for the first year.

82 10 02 9604

Destination Marketing

Program

Brockville Accommodation and Attraction Partners —
Use of Funds

VVVVVVVV

Start-up Coop Advertising Fund
Salary

Rent

Office Equipment & Supplies
Insurance

Legal Fees

Brand Development

Membership Fees — i.e. International Travel Council etc.

8210 12 9604

Destination Marketing

Program

Brockville Accommodation and Attraction Partners

To date, we have a number of accommodation and attraction

partners who have signed letters of intent to enter into a term

agreement with the Brockville Accommodation and Attraction

Partners by January 1, 2017 with more expected in the weeks
to come.

8210 22 9604

Page 23 of 78

26Sopt2016
REPORT TO THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE
4 OCTOBER 2016

2016-130-10
PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO ZONING BY-LAW 050-2014 _M, PASCOE MERKLEY
PART OF LOT 11, BLOCK 31, PLAN 67 DIRECTOR OF PLANNING
CITY OF BROCKVILLE ANDREW MCGINNIS
12 VICTORIA AVENUE PLANNER IL

OWNERS: IAN & MARY JEAN MCFALL
APPLICANT: BRIAN KENDEL.
FILE: D14-015 5020:

RECOMMENDATION

THAT Zoning By-law 050-2014 be amended to rezone lands described as Part of Lot
11, Block 31, Plan 67, City of Brockville, County of Leeds, with municipal address 12
Victoria Avenue, from'R4 - General Residential Zone to MD — Mixed Use Downtown
Zone.

PURPOSE

The purpose of this report is to provide recommendation on an application respecting 12
Victoria Avenue, to amend City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 as it relates to the
subject lands.

BACKGROUND

Mr. Brian Kendel, agent acting on behalf of the owners of lands described as Part of Lot
11, Block 31, Plan 67, City of Brockville, County of Leeds, has filed an application for
amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014. The lands which are the
subject of the application are located on the west side of Victoria Avenue and south of
Victoria Lane, as shown on Schedule “A” attached hereto.

The property measures approximately 287.99 m? in size with frontage on Victoria
‘Avenue of 1.24 m and 18.89 m on Victoria Lane. The application for an amendment to
Zoning By-law 050-2014 seeks to rezone this parcel from Ra — General Residential
Zone to MD ~ Mixed Use Downtown Zone to faciltate development of a "Business and
Professional Office” within the existing building,

Zoning and Official Plan information:

Official Ptan: Downtown and Central Waterfront Area ~ Transitional Area,
within the Mixed-Use Node.

Existing Zoning: R4 ~ General Residential Zone

Proposed Zoning: MD — Mixed Use Downtown Zone to permit a "Business and

Professional Office” within the existing building,

Page 24 of 78

2016-130-10 Page?
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-Law 080-2014

42 Vitoria Aven, Cty of roc

umers! lan and ary ean We
‘Appleant. Brian Kendel

Fos: 014-0152

Site Characteristics:

Total Area: 287.99 m?
Frontage (Victoria Ave): 15.24m
Frontage (Victoria Lane): 18.89 m

‘The subject land is currently occupied by a 3 storey brick structure and small parking
area for two vehicles, accessed off Victoria Lane. The property is currently used as a
single detached dwelling. In the past, the building was the home of a physician and his
family, and contained his medical office.

Photos of the subject property are attached as Schedule “B”.

‘Surrounding Land Use:

North: Lands to the north are zoned R4 ~ General Residential Zone and
are occupied by a Residential Triplex.
‘South: Lands to the south are zoned MD — Mixed Use Downtown Zone

and are occupied by Spitfire Café and an owner-occupied
residential dwelling unit.

East: Lands across Victoria Avenue are zoned MD ~ Mixed Use
Downtown Zone and are occupied by Residential Dwellings
containing multiple units

West: Lands to the west are zoned MD — Mixed Use Downtown Zone and
are occupied by Commercial Uses fronting on King Street.

Public Participation

‘The application for the Zoning By-law Amendment has preceded through the normal
review process. On 6 September 2016, a Public Meeting was held by the Economic
Development and Planning Committee. Notice of the Public Meeting was advertised in
the Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper on 11 August 2016 and was circulated to
Property owners within 120.0 metres of the subject property. In addition, a sign was
posted on the subject property advising that the lands are the subject of application for
Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014. Comments from City
Departments and affected agencies were also solicited. An excerpt from the minutes of
the Public Meeting is attached as Schedule “C”.

Comments Receiv immarized below:

1. Brent Caskenette, Chief Building Official
+ No.concemn with the application at this time.

Page 25 of 78
2016-30-10 Page

Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-Law 050-2014

{2 Victoria Avenui, Cty of Brac

Owners: lan and Mary Jean Wes
[pplicant Brian Kendo!

Fos: 014-0151 an

2, Greg Healy, Chief Fire Prevention Officer
‘* No concern provided that a Change of Use Permit is obtained and also a
Building Permit to separate the commercial from the residential
‘occupancy.

3. Steve Allen, Supervisor of Engineering, Environmental Services Department:
‘* No concern

ANALYSIS
Provincial Policy Statement Considerations:

The Provincial Policy Statement 2014 (PPS) issued under section 3 of the Planning Act
provides policy direction on matters of Provincial interest related to land use planning
and development. Section 3 of the Planning Act further directs that Council decisions
affecting planning matters “shall be consistent with" the Provincial Policy Statement.

Part V of the PPS sets out various policies which describe areas of Provincial interest.
Not all policies in the PPS are relevant to the planning matter under consideration, and
thus, only those relevant portions will be referenced below.

From a review of the PPS, there are some relevant statements/policies under Part V,
Section 1 “Building Strong Communities”, The preamble in this section is a general
statement which reads, in part, as follows:

“Ontario's long-term prosperity, environmental health and social well-being
depend on wisely managing change and promoting efficient land use and
development pattems. Efficient land use and development patterns
support strong, livable and healthy communities, protect the environment
and public health and safety, and facilitate economic growth.” !

This general statement is followed by more specific policies, including the following
references which are of relevance to this application:

‘Section 1.1 Managing and Directing Land use to Achieve Efficient and Resilient
Development and Land use Pattems, includes various policies addressing
sustaining “healthy, livable and safe communities’ through
developmentiredevelopment within settlement areas which build upon existing
services and amenities.

‘This general statement is foliowed by more specific policies, promoting intensification of
existing building stock with full municipal services located within settlement areas.

Page 26 of 78
Page d

Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-Law 050-2014
42 Victor Avena, Cty of Broa

(wera lan and ary Joan Mes
‘Applicant: Brian Kendel

Fes: 014-015 sna

“4.4.3.4 Settlement areas shall be the focus of growth and their vitality and
regeneration shall be promoted.”

“4.1.3.2 Land use patterns within settlement areas shall be based on:
a. densities and a mix of land uses which:
‘a. efficiently use land and resources;
. are appropriate for, and efficiently use, the infrastructure and public
‘service facilties which are planned or available, and avoid the need
{or their unjustified and/or uneconomical expansion; and
c. minimize negative impacts to air quality and climate change, and
promote energy efficiency in accordance with policy 1.8; and
b. a range of uses and opportunites for intensification and redevelopment in
‘accordance with the criteria in policy 1.1.3.3.

Furthermore, Section 1.1.3.3 also states that “Planning Authorities shall identify and
promote opportunities for intensification and redevelopment where this can be
‘accommodated taking into account existing building stock or areas, inoluding brownfield
sites, and the availabilty of suitable existing or planned infrastructure and public service
facilities required to accommodate projected needs”. Additional policies addressing the
matter of intensification are found throughout the PPS.

“1.3.1 Planning authorities shall promote economic development and
competitiveness by:

4) providing opportunities for a diversified economic base, including
‘maintaining a range and choice of suitable sites for employment
uses which support a wide range of economic activities and .
ancillary uses, and take info account the needs of existing and )
future businesses:...”

The proposed “Business and Professional Office” is to be located within an existing
building with full municipal services, access to public transit, and located within the
Downtown and Central Waterfront’ Area of the City. Accordingly, the proposed
commercial use, together with the ablity to have residential occupancy, is consistent
with various policies contained within the PPS, as outlined above.

Official Pian Considerations

The Official Plan provides guidance on how to manage future growth, development, and
‘change within the City of Brockville.

‘The Official Plan's goals are to create a sustainable city in terms of health and vitality,
that is economically viable and diverse, has high quality municipal services and
‘amenities, and is well planned.


Page 27 of 78

2016.130-10 Pages
Proposed Amendment to Zoning

12 Vietorla Avenue, Clty of Brock
‘Owners: lan and ary Jean MeFall
‘pplcant. Brian Kendl

Foe: D14.015exe2n0

Section 2.3 outlines strategic planning themes which include ‘A Sustainable, Healthy,
and Vital City’, "An Economically Strong and Diverse City, “A High Quality of City
Services and Amenities’, and “A Well-Planned Responsive Cit’. Specifically, "A
Sustainable, Healthy, and Vital Cty’ outlines among others, that the City is to "ensure
that all citizens have, equitable, accessible, affordable, energy efficent housing choices,
which are supportive of a variety of lifestyles at various stages of ie."

Through approved objectives, the City is also to “revitalize the Downtown and Central
Waterfront Area as mixed commercial, residential, cultural, social, tourism and
entertainment destinations, while recognizing and conserving its cultural heritage
resources” and “provide for a variety of housing forms, tenures and levels of affordability
through development, redevelopment, intensification and infiling projects.”

‘The subject land is designated under Schedule 1 - City Structure, of the Official Plan, as
“Downtown and Central Waterfront Area within the Mixed Use Node”. In addition, the
subject land is subject to the following constraints and considerations:

‘+ Schedule 2 — Design Strategy — Downtown and Central Waterfront Area, of the
Oficial Pian, identifies the subject land as being subject to Policy’ 4.2.3
Specifically, the property is subject to policies pertaining to the “Transitional
Area’ and “Intermittent Street Frontage”. Policy 4.2.3 is discussed further in this
report

Section 3 addresses building a healthy and sustainable City. More specifically, Section
3.2.21 states among others that development within the Mixed Use Nodes and
Corridors needs to be transit supportive and accommodate a range of uses. This
section continues by envisioning the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area as being
the primary focus for the greatest mix of commercial, retall, and service opportunities.
More specifically, the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area is the primary mixed-use
Node and is intended to accommodate residential, office, commercial, community
services, cultural activities, main street shops and boutiques, and related uses. and
activities that reinforce the existing character of the downtown area

Section 3.2.6 outlines policies for the scope of development within the “Downtown and
Central Waterfront Area’, focusing on intensification and redevelopment, revitalization
of the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area and which piace an emphasis on the
urban design and architecture being consistent with the guidelines contained within the
Downtown Waterfront Master Plan and Urban Design Strategy.

‘The general Downtown and Central Waterfront Area policies are further refined under
Section 4.2.2 where, in addition to residential dwelling units being permitted,
‘commercial uses such as business and professional offices, eating establishments,
service and convenience retail and similar types of uses shall also be permitted.

Page 28 of 78
2016-130.40 Pages
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-Law 050-2014
42 Victoria Avenue, Cy of Brock
Owners: Ian and Mary Jean McFall
‘Applicant: Bran Kondo!
Files: 014-015 0s0n

Section 4.2.3, subsection 5, states that "All required parking shall be provided on the
site or in a shared facility having adequate capacity within 150 metres of the subject
lands. Appropriate parking standards for the Downtown and Central Waterfront shall be
‘established in the Zoning By-law’.

Section 4.2.3, subsection 11, states that for lands “Within transitional areas of the
Downtown and Central Waterfront Area identified on Schedule 2, the height, density
and massing of the development shall be compatible with the adjacent low density
residential uses through the use of appropriate transitions including but not limited to
lower building heights, additonal setbacks and buffers, building treatments, location of
parking, and landscaping’.

Based on policies above, review of Schedule 1 ~ City Structure and Schedule 2 -
Design Strategy — Downtown and Central Waterfront, as well as comments received,
planning staff are of the opinion that the proposal to permit the current residential use to
be converted, in part, to commercial occupancy for an interior design business will have
little to no impact on abutting properties. The proposed commercial use of the property
is considered compatible with the neighbourhood and therefore conforms to policies
contained within the Official Plan.

Zoning By-law Consideration:

The current zoning on the property with municipal address 12 Victoria Avenue is R4 —
General Residential Zone under City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014. The
requested Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 would, if approved,
rezone the subject lands from the current R4 ~ General Residential Zone to MD — Mixed
Use Downtown Zone to facilitate development of a "Business and Professional Office”
within the existing building,

Staff have examined the request, looked at the current uses within the surrounding area,
as well as previous files regarding requests for rezoning to properties on the fringe of
the MD ~ Mixed Use and Downtown Zone and have no concer with the proposed use
which would occupy an underutilized downtown building. The property immediately
south (10 Vietoria Avenue) and properties directly across Victoria Avenue are zoned MD
= Mixed Use Downtown Zone. By permitting the requested rezoning, development
patterns along Victoria Avenue would be more uniform and following the natural division
line that Victoria Lane establishes

It also should be reiterated that this building did previously contain a commercial
component when the house was occupied by a doctor, his family and his medical
practice,

Respecting on-site parking, Zoning By-law 050-2014 permits the conversation of part or
all of a residential unit to a commercial use permitted in the Downtown and Central

Page 29 of 78

2016-19040 Page?
Fropoted Amendment to Zoning By. Law 0502044

42 Vietoria Aveo, Cty of Bro

vers ana Mary ean cra
‘Applicant Brian Kend!

Flee: O14-01Syna

Waterfront Area. If the new commercial use will occupy part or all of the ground floor
area of the building, there is an exemption for a maximum of three (3) parking spaces.
AAs the site currently contains two (2) parking spaces to the rear of the dwelling and the
proposed change requires three (3) additional spaces, the net result is that no additional
‘spaces are required for the proposed use of the building,

On balance, the requested rezoning to MD Mixed Use Downtown Zone is appropriate,
and no special exceptions are requited to be included for purposes of the conversion of
12 Victoria Avenue to the mixed use of the existing building as proposed,

POLICY IMPLICATIONS

A review of applicable P.P.S. and Official Plan policies appears in the Analysis section
of this report

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS.

‘A complete application for amendment to the City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014
has been received, including all applicable fees. All costs associated with the proposed
Zoning By-law Amendment are the responsibilty of the Owners,

‘CONCLUSION

Following review of the PPS, the Official Plan, Zoning By-law 050-2014, as well as
submissions received respecting the request for Zoning By-law amendment for 12
Victoria Avenue, it is reasonable to rezone the subject property to MD-Mixed Use
Downtown Zone. The proposed rezoning wil intensify the use of an existing building,
utilize existing services/infrastructure and add to the mixed-use nature of buildings
within the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area. With its proximity to King Street, by
encouraging the conversion of the property and utlization of the space as proposed by
the applicant represents good planning. This conclusion is reflected in the

recommendation at the an. ofthis report,

w. Lica rel Morkley, MCIP; RPP Andrew McGinnis, MCIP, RPP, Dip MM.
Director of Planning Planner it

38 Ceveoiman

City Manager


an saw
J, PART OF LANE BETWEEN LTS De

w (PARTS LOT 10- BLOCK 31

CITY OF BROCHVILLE
seer
*

OL-0£1-9102 LHOdSY OL «WV» FINGAHIS

8210 06 obeg

Page 31 of 78

SCHEDULE “B” TO REPORT 2016-130-10


Page 32 of 78

SCHEDULE “C” TO REPORT 2016-130-10
fal Public Meeting

BROCKVILLE Economic Development &
“GaYOF THE 1000 SLANOS Planning Committee

COMMITTEE MINUTES

Tuesday, September 06, 2016, 6:00 pm
City Hall, Council Chambers

Col
Co
Co
Cot
Cot
Cot

mmittee Members:
wuncillor P. Deery, Chair

wuncillor L. Bursey

uncillor M. Kalivas

uncillor D. LeSueur

uncillor Mayor D. Henderson, Ex-Officio

Staff:

Mr.
Mr,
Ms,
Ms,

J, Faurschou, Planner 1
A. McGinnis, Planner IT

. S, MacDonald, City Clerk (Recording Secretary)
M. Pascoe Merkley, Director of Planning

The Chair called the meeting to order at 6:00 pm.

ITEM

1

2016-15-09
Proposed Amendment to Zoning
By-law 050-2014, 12 Victoria Avenue
‘Owners: Ian & Mary McFall
Applicant: Brian Kendel

Moved by: Councillor Kalivas.
THAT Report 2016-115-09 be received as information and that a report on
this matter be prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic
Development Planning Committee at a future meeting,

CARRIED

Councillor Deery, Chair, introduced the public meeting and read from the
prepared required comments.

Page 1 of 4

Page 33 of 78

Economic Development and Planning Committee Public Meeting Minutes
Tuesday, September 08, 2016

‘Mr. McGinnis announced that notice of the Public Meeting was advertised in
the Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper on August 11, 2016 and was
Circulated to property owners within 120.0 metres (400.0 feet) of the
subject property. In addition, signs were posted on the subject property
advising that the lands are the subject of an Application for Amendment to
the City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014,

Councillor Deery, Chair, asked that any person wanting further notice of the
passage of the proposed amendment should give their full name, address
and postal code to the Secretary prior to leaving the meeting.

Councillor Dery reviewed the procedures for the Public Meeting.

Mr. McGinnis provided an overview of the proposed zoning amendment.

Mr. Kendel who is the applicant, was in attendance to answer questions.

No persons completed the “Request for Information”

The meeting adjourned at 6:08 pm.

The meeting was called to order at 6:09 pm.

Page 2 of 4

(Highway Pentecost
Applicant: Brockville


Page 34 of 78

20 September 2016

REPORT TO THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE - 04 OCTOBER
2016

2016-131-10
PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO OFFICIAL PLAN M, PASCOE MERKLEY
‘AND ZONING BY-LAW 050-2014 DIRECTOR OF PLANNING.
‘800 STEWART BOULEVARD, BROCKVILLE J. FAURSCHOU
OWNER: PENTECOSTAL ASSEMBLIES OF CANADA PLANNER |

(HIGHWAY PENTECOSTAL CHURCH)
APPLICANT: BROCKVILLE MONTESSORI SCHOOL,
FILE: D09-05 & D14-016 (30.2014)

RECOMMENDATION

1. THAT Official Plan Amendment No. 5 to modify “Site Specific Policy Area 4.8.4.1"
respecting lands described as Concession 2, Part of Lot 16, Parts 1 to 3, RP 28R-3242,
City of Brockville, County of Leeds, with municipal address 800 Stewart Boulevard, to
permit a private school and a day nursery, in addition to the existing place of worship, be
adopted,

2. THAT Zoning By-law 050-2014 be amended to modify the I1-3 General Institutional Special
Exception Zone applicable to lands described as Concession 2, Part of Lot 16, Parts 1 to 3,
RP 28R-3242, City of Brockville, County of Leeds, with municipal address’ 800 Stewart
Boulevard, to allow for a private school and a day nursery as permitted uses in addition to a
place of worship.

PURPOSE

The purpose of this report is to provide recommendation on applications respecting 800
Stewart Boulevard, to amend City of Brockville Official Plan and to amend City of Brockville
Zoning By-law 050-2014 to permit, on private services, a day nursery and a private schoo! in
addition to the currently permitted place of worship.

BACKGROUND

‘The subject property, 800 Stewart Boulevard, was originally developed in 1986 as the Highway
Pentecostal Church. The current use of the building is as the Highway Pentecostal Church.
‘Schedule “A” to this report is a site plan of the subject property.

‘An Application for Amendment to the Official Plan for the City of Brockville and for amendment
to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 was submitted by Mary Jane Leslie ~ Brockville
Montessori School, acting as Agent for the property Owner, Pentecostal Assemblies of
Canada, for lands legally described as Concession 2, Part of Lot 16, Parts 1 to 3, RP 26R-
3242, City of Brockville, County of Leeds known municipally as 800 Stewart Boulevard,

Page 35 of 78

zoves3140 Page 2
Proposed Amendment o Zoning By aw 0502014

‘eo'Stewart Buievard. cay of roc

Fe: 0908, DI Oty

The application requests amendments to permit a day nursery and a private schoo! to be
Permitted to operate from 800 Stewart Boulevard. The building is currently owned by the
Pentecostal Assemblies of Canada and occupied by the Highway Pentecostal Church. The
proposed day nursery and school would be operated by Brockville Montessori School. The
Applicant has submitted a detailed background and rationale for the relocation and expansion
of the Montessori School from 80 Pine Street (St. Lawrence Anglican Church), to 800 Stewart
Boulevard which has been attached as Schedule “B” to this report. In brief, the current
location at 80 Pine Street cannot accommodate the proposed expansion of the day nursery
and creation of a new private elementary school. Over an extended period of time, the
Applicants have investigated various locations but have been unsuccessful until finding
available space at 800 Stewart Boulevard.

800 Stewart Boulevard is designated as ‘Institutional’ with a site specific policy allowing for
development on private services and to be occupied by a place of worship only. The
application for amendment to the Official Plan would, if approved, amend the policy such that a
private school and a day nursery would be permitted in addition to the existing church use and
the site may continue with private services.

The subject land is zoned as [1-3 General Institutional Special Exception Zone which restricts
the use of 800 Stewart Boulevard to a church only on private services. The application for
amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014 would, if approved, change the I1-3 General
Institutional Special Exception Zone to allow for a private school and a day nursery as
permitted uses in addition to the existing church use and the site may continue with private
services,

‘Summary of Zoning and Official Plan Information:

Official Plan: “institutional Area” with a ‘Site Specific Policy Area 4.8.4.1
allowing for a place of worship only

Proposed Official Plan: “Institutional Area” with amended “Site Specific Policy Area 4.8.4.1"
allowing for a “Place of Worship’, “Day Nursery” and “Private

Schoo only.
Existing Zoning: 1-3 General Institutional Special Exception Zone
Proposed Zoning: 1-3 General Institutional Special Exception Zone to permit a place

‘of worship, a day nursery and a private school without the
requirement of being connected to municipal services.

Site Characteristics:
‘The subject property is located on the west side of Stewart Boulevard approximately mid-way

between Victoria Road to the south and Centennial Road to the north. The total lot area is
approximately 4.37 hectares (10.8 acres). The property is occupied by the Highway

Page 36 of 78

zmes-10 Pages
Proposed Amendment o Zoning By aw 80-2016

[20 Star Boutevard Cy of Broce

Fe 0.98 D140tSpaony

Pentecostal Church. The site is serviced by private services (holding tank and private well)
approved by the Lanark, Leeds and Grenville District Health Unit,

‘Surrounding Land Us

North: Lands located to the north are zoned RU-6 Zone and RU-Rural Zone; occupied by Ford
Electric, including a dwelling, and a single detached dwelling, respectively

East: Lands located to the east (opposite side of Stewart Boulevard) are zoned RU-Rural
Zone; occupied by residential dwellings.

West: Lands located to the west are zoned RU-Rural Zone; primarily vacant interior lands and
for residential dwellings fronting on Victoria Road,

South: Lands located to the south-west are zoned RU-Rural Zone; primarily vacant interior
lands and primarily residential dwellings fronting on Victoria Road.

Lands located to the south-east are vacant and zoned C4-3 Highway Commercial
‘Special Exception Zone to allow for a future "Automobile Sales Establishment’

Public Participation:

‘The application for the Official Plan Amendment and the application for Zoning By-law
‘Amendment have proceeded through the normal review process. On 06 September 2016, a
Public Meeting was held by the Economic Development and Planning Committee. Notice of
the Public Meeting was advertised in the Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper on 11
August 2016 and was circulated to property owners within 120.0 metres of the subject
property. In addition, a sign was posted on the subject property, one at each of the two
entrances, advising that the lands are the subject of application for amendment to the City of
Brockville Official Plan and application for amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-
2014. Comments from City Departments and affected agencies were also solicited. An
‘excerpt from the Minutes of the Public Meeting is attached as Schedule “C”.

Comments Received are summarized below and attached as indicated as Schedule
Departments and Agencies:

1. Planning Department - Building Services Division, B Caskenette, CBO: (e-mail dated 12
‘September 2016) - “No concems.”

2. Environmental Services Department, S. Allen, Supervisor of Engineering:
(memo dated 28 August 2016)

“The Environmental Services Department has reviewed the request for a zoning by-law
‘amendment dated August 28, 2016 that would allow for the change in rezonging to 11-3

Page 37 of 78

zore3140 Paget
Proposed Amendment o Zoning By ew 802014

o'Strr utevard Cay of Broce

Fe 008 08,0140

Gnarls Institutional Special Exception Zone to allow for a Private Schoo! and Nursery"
and we are not opposed to the application.”

3. Fire Prevention Office ~ Greg Healy, Chief Fire Prevention Officer (memo dated 29 August
2016)

“After reviewing the above-noted amendment proposal the Fire Department has no
‘concems. However, due fo the proposed use of the property Fire Code requirements
‘may apply, therefore an inspection by this Department should be carried out prior to
‘occupancy.

4, Economic Development ~ David Paul, Director of Economic Development (e-mail dated 25,
‘August 2016)

“Economic Development is supportive of the 800 Stewart Blvd. application and has
been working with the client for almost 12 months reference to seeking relocation of the
working business.”

5. Ministry of Tourism Culture and Sport - Robert Von Bitter (e-mail dated 20 July 2016)

“No reported archaeological sites are showing up in the immediate vicinity of that
location..."

6 Leeds, Grenville & Lanark District Health Unit - Courtney Shaffer, Public Health
Inspector, Infectious Disease Program (See attached letter received August 4, 2016):

‘+ Confirmation of history of compliance under O. Reg 319 of the Heath Protection and
Promotion Act for the current drinking water system at the Highway Pentecost's
Church,

© A licensed child care center is considered an institution and will be subject to
inspection and regulation by the Ministry of Environment and Climate Change under
©. Reg. 170 of the Safe Drinking Water Act. MOECC may have additional
requirements regarding sampling and modifications to the system.

‘+ Food preparation for children requires compliance with O. Reg. 562 Food Premises
Regulation of the Health Protection and Promotion Act. The kitchen is not currently
inspected by the Heath Unit. A request for a "Maintenance Inspection’ is required.

7. Leeds, Grenville & Lanark District Health Unit ~ Mark Greene, CBO-Part Vill Program:
(Gee attached later received 01 September 2016)

*... Comments will be provided once an inspection of the site has been completed. We
have notified the property ower of the need to complete and submit an application for a
Maintenance Inspection to our office.”

Page 38 of 78

Proposed Amondmont to Zoning Bylaw 0502014
00 Stoware Boulevard City of Brock
Fie 08.05, 0140p

8 Cataraqui Region Conservation Authority (CRCA) — Michael Dakin, Resource
Planner. (e-mail received 17 August 2016):

“ORCA staff have reviewed the Notices of Official Plan and Zoning By-law amendments
that were recently circuited to us of the properties at 800 Stewart Boulevard ... This is to
confirm we have no concems/objections with these applications. We will not provide
formal comment letters and there are no fee requirements from us.”

9. Ministry of Housing (MOH) ~ Morgan Alger, Planner (E-mail received 12 September 2016)

“The Ministry has no comments on the proposed OPA No. 009-5.”

Comments Received ~ Public Meeting: None.
ANALYSIS:

Provincial Policy Statement Considerations:

The Provincial Policy Statement 2014 (PPS) issued under Section 3 of the Planning Act
provides policy direction on matters of Provincial interest related to land use planning and
development. Section 3 of the Planning Act further directs that Council decisions affecting
planning matters “shail be consistent with” the Provincial Policy Statement.

Part V of the PPS sets out various policies which describe areas of Provincial interest. Not all
policies in the PPS are relevant to the planning matter under consideration, and thus, only
those relevant portions will be referenced below.

The PPS defines “Intensification’, as follows

“Intensification: means the development of a property, site or area at a higher density
than currently exists through:

43) redevelopment, including the reuse of brownfield sites;

») the development of vacant and/or underutilized lots within previously developed
areas;

©) infil development; and
4) the expansion or conversion of existing buildings.”
From a review of the PPS, there are some relevant statements/policies under Part V, Section 1

“Building Strong Healthy Communities’. The preamble in this section is a general statement
which reads, in part, as follows:

Page 39 of 78

Proposed Amendment to Zoning By tw 0602016
10s'Stewert outevar, Cy of Bch
Fie bos, bt Stans

“Ontario's long-term prosperity, environmental health and social well-being depend on
wisely managing change and promoting efficient land use and development patterns.
Efficient land use and development patterns support strong, livable and healthy
communities, protect the environment and public health and safety, and facilitate
‘economic growth.”

‘This general statement is followed by more specific policies, including the various references
which are of relevance to this application for Official Pian and Zoning By-law amendment. In
summary, intensification is encouraged where such action represents efficient use of lands and
resources and where such use is appropriate for, and efficiently uses, available or planned
public infrastructure and services.

In the case of 800 Stewart Boulevard, the existing building is a previously approved
development located on an Arterial roadway, being Stewart Boulevard, and represents an
‘opportunity for intensification of an existing use with additional complementary institutional
uses, being a day nursery and a private school. No additional services are required to
accommodate the proposed uses. However, the continuation of private services at 800
Stewart Boulevard requires the owner/applicant to meet additional applicable legislation which
is discussed elsewhere in this report

Official Plan Consideratior

The Official Plan for the City of Brockville provides guidance on how to manage future growth,
development, and change within the City of Brockville.

The Official Plan's goals are to create a sustainable City in terms of health and vitality, that is
economically viable and diverse, has high quality city services and amenities, and is well
planned.

Section 2.3 outlines strategic planning themes that include a “Sustainable, Healthy, and Vital
City ~ Objectives", “An Economically Strong and Diverse City’, “A High Quality of City Services,
and Amenities’, and “A Well-Planned Responsive City’

Institutional Area Policies:

‘Section 4.8.1 recognises “the important contribution of the City’s institutions and their role in
‘community based initiatives as significant in the City of Brockville. In addition, it recognises
the primary use of Institutional areas for institutional uses that are of a community or regional
nature including, but not limited to, educational facilities and furthermore recognises that smal!-
scale institutional uses are permitted within the Institutional designation.

The current designation on 800 Stewart Boulevard under the Official Plan for the City of
Brockville, as amended, is “Institutional Area” with a “Site Specific Policy Area 4.8.4.1". Site
‘Specific Policy Area 4.8.4.1 reads as follows

Page 40 of 78

zoreaat.so Page?
Propased Arendment o Zoning By ew 080-2014
£60 Stewart Boulevard, Cy of Brochie

Fe: D0095, Depo

4.8.4.1 SSPA — 800 Stewart Boulevard

1. SSPA 4.8.4.1 Is identified in Schedule 6 and relates to those lands at 800
Stewart Boulevard. SSPA 4.8.4.1 shall permit a place or worship. This use shall
bbe permitted on existing individual private services. Additional uses, or the
intensification of an existing use, shall not be permitted.

2 SSPA 4.8.44 shall be zoned in an appropriate category in the Zoning By-law fo
permit the existing uses.”

The requested Amendment to the Official Plan for the City of Brockville would, if approved,
amend Policy 4.8.4.1 to permit a “Day Nursery” and a “Private Schoo!” in addition to the
existing church use while retaining the remaining text

‘Should the recommendation above be accepted by Coun
similar to the following

|, Policy 4.8.4.1 would read

"4.8.4.1 SSPA — 800 Stewart Boulevard

1. SSPA 4.8.4.1 is identified in Schedule 6 and relates to those lands at 600
Stewart Boulevard. SSPA 4.8.4.1 shall permit a place or worship, day nursery
and private school. This use shall be permitted on existing individual private
services. Additional uses, or the intensification of an existing use, shall not be
permitted.

2. SSPA 4.8.4.1 shall be zoned in an appropriate category in the Zoning By-law to
permit the existing uses.”

‘The uses sought through the requested amendment to the Official Plan are consistent with
Policies under the PPS and the Official Plan, Section 4.8-Institutional Area. In addition the
‘matter of accommodating the proposed new uses within the existing individual private
services has been addressed with the local Health unit and, subject to further inspection
and potential revisions to the maintenance and monitoring of the system. Accordingly, the
proposal represents a reasonable opportunity for intensification of an existing building,

Zoning By-law Considerations:

‘The current zoning on the property with municipal address 800 Stewart Boulevard is zoned
under City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014, as amended, as [1-3 General Institutional
Special Exception Zone which reads as follows:

‘7.3.7.3 11-3 Zone (600 Stewart Blvd.)
The uses permitted in the 11-3 Zone shail be restricted to a church.

Notwithstanding Subsection 3.30 (Municipal Services Required), a place of worship
‘may be constructed, altered or enlarged without the necessity of being connected to
‘municipal water and sewer services.”


Page 41 of 78

zorsa3140 Pages
Propaced Amendment o Zoning By aw 080-2016
1 Stowart Boutovard Cy of Brock

Fe 00-0, 140mg

The current zone was placed on the site at the time of construction of the main building in
1986. Municipal services were not available in 1986. However, development was permitted to
proceed with servicing in the form of a private well and holding tank, subject to appropriate
approvals and monitoring. On-going successful monitoring has been confirmed by the local
Health Unit.

‘Municipal services have not been extended since 1986 and are therefore not currently
available. Accordingly, the applicant has consulted with the local Health Unit and has received
direction on how to proceed with obtaining appropriate approvals and monitoring in order to
permit the proposed additional uses. Confirmation of receipt of applicable approvals is
‘equired prior to occupancy of 800 Stewart Boulevard for the proposed uses.

‘No additional parking spaces are required to be provided on-site as the site has 114 paved
parking spaces and 53 graveled parking spaces for a total of 161 parking spaces. The current
place of worship and the proposed private school and day nursery require a total of 93 parking
spaces.

‘As only an outdoor play area is proposed in the way of exterior site changes, no other zone,
provisions need to be addressed other than those under the current I1-3 Zone provisions,

‘The requested Amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 would, if approved,
delete the current wording for the I1-3 General Institutional Special Exception Zone and
replace it with new wording for a General Institutional Special Exception Zone to permit a ‘Day
Nursery” and a “Private Schoo!” in addition to the existing church use on private services. The
proposed zoning would be brought into conformity with terminology under Zoning By-law 050-
2014 by removing the term *Church’ and replacing it with the term "Place of Worship" which is
defined as follows:

“186. Place of Worship, means @ building dedicated to religious worship and may
include a mosque, synagogue, church or other such religious institution and may
include accessory uses such as an assembly hall, auditorium, school, convent, parish
hall and/or manse, if the manse is located on the same lot as the place of worship.”

‘Should the recommendation above be accepted by Council, the zone would read similar to the
following

"7.3.7.3 11-3 Zone (800 Stewart Bivd.)

The uses permitted in the 11-3 Zone shall be restricted to place of worship, a day
nursery and a private school.

‘Notwithstanding Subsection 3.30 (Municipal Services Required), the existing building
may be altered or enlarged without the necessity of being connected to municipal
water and sewer services, subject to approvals being obtained from the appropriate
Departments and Agencies.”


Page 42 of 78

amesat10 Pages
Proposed Amendment o Zoning yaw 60-2014

‘to Stomr Boutovard Cy of Broce

Fhe 08-05, 010

Site Plan Considerations:

Al lands within the limits of the City for Brockville are subject to development approval under
Site Plan as established by City of Brockville By-law 33-86, as amended. 800 Stewart
Boulevard is subject to terms and conditions of Site Plan Control Agreement, File 609-093.

Given the current application for amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 and
prior to further development of the subject lands, including but not limited to a new play area,
fencing, etc. associated with the proposed uses, an application for Minor Change to Site Plan,
including all applicable drawings to illustrate the proposed changes, must be submitted for
review and approval. This process ensures that the required building and site changes remain
in compliance with all applicable zone provisions and appropriate design and engineering
standards.

Consideration of Issues Raised through Public and Agency Submissions:

There were no issues raised by the public at the Public Meeting held on 06 September 2016.
The following potential concems were brought forward in general discussion at the Public
Meeting held on 06 September 2016

41. Appropriateness of the Requested Zoning:

‘The requested zoning is considered appropriate for the site as the zone recognizes the
building location and current use and the introduction of a Day Nursery and a Private
‘School within the existing building and being subject to meeting various Health Unit
standards and Building Code requirements does not represent an inappropriate us of the
site. Accordingly, the proposed additional uses are considered appropriate.

2. Potential for Increased Tax:

‘The Applicant and Owner have confirmed that they are aware that there may be tax
implications associated with the proposed new uses within the building given the property
currently enjoys tax exempt status

3. Approval for School Use:

The Applicant has confirmed that they are aware of approvals required as related to a new
private school

4, Suitability of Lands with Private Services for Proposed Uses:

‘The Applicant has confirmed that they have been in consultation with the local health unit
land are aware of the requirements associated with the introduction of the additional
proposed uses to an existing well and holding tank and food preparation areas and the
need for an inspection once the site is completed, as identified in correspondence from the
Leeds, Grenville & Lanark District Health Unit dated 04 August 2016 and 01 September

Page 43 of 78

Fie: 000.08, 0Nenae

2016. As the fore-going requirements are mandatory, proof of approvals is required to
ensure compliance with applicable legislation. Compliance will be shared between the
Health Unit and the Planning Department as part of the overall review process.

POLICY IMPLICATIONS

Policy implications associated with the proposed new uses at 800 Stewart Boulevard are
limited to amendment of Official Plan Policy 4.8.4.1 Site Specific Policy Area - 800 Stewart
Boulevard as they relate to additional uses on private services,

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS

Complete applications for amendment to the Official Plan and to City of Brockville Zoning By-
law 050-2014 have been received, including all applicable fees, There are no other financial
considerations at this time. All costs associated with the use of the property are the
responsibilty of the Owner/Applicant.

CONCLUSION

Following review of the PPS, the Official Plan, Zoning By-law 050-2014, as well as
‘submissions received, and discussion at the Public Meeting respecting the request for Official
Plan amendment and Zoning By-law amendment for 800 Stewart Boulevard, itis reasonable to
amend the Site Specific Policy 7.3.7.3 and to rezone the subject property to intensify its use
and to accommodate a day nursery and private school as compatible uses.

‘Accordingly, itis the recommendation of this report to support the requested amendment to the
City of Brockville Official Plan and the requested amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-
law 050-2014,

Arfisct bak lay

Pascoe Merkley, MCIP, RPP TFaychou, MCIP, RPP
Director of Planning Planner |

B. fo

City Manager


Page 44 of 78

‘SCHEDULE “A” - REPORT 2016-131-10

Excerpt from: Schedule “A”, Map 16, to Cty of Brockvile Zoning By-law 050-2014, as
‘amended, indicating the location ofthe subject property

Page 45 of 78

= REPORT 2016-131-10

‘roche Montetor Seal inthe proces of expanding fom ks curent one clstoom shoot
(Wnderarten program to ince a Yoder Program and eventual lmertay. We began our
search for anew space despite bela vry happy nour current location, due othe dese om
‘the comsmunty ardour parent to provide more Monson Eéveaton nd eh cae fr
‘olden, The schoo ecient ave casoon fr 25-6 yar lected downtown nt
Lawrence Agican Church, In order to expand the school we equ mare space. Many of ur
ames woud ke an eementary Program othe ciren can contin wth hel stesin
‘ur cura. As there are cre othe privat school options in Brehle, we thinks
woul bea ret asset tothe community and aes nthe aren. We ao see a demand fora
Tosser rogram as we have cllfor ose or Tod reguny despite ot feng yt
‘Thar are many fares iaerstedins Toler Progra we could provide Begin
sale conmunty des not ean tha famies sho beneath oes or endare,
‘eig 3 parent of young child ml, know how Ba Ios been oid appropiate cha
«carer private school options lami should have options forthe chire's education and
we thinkthis woul bea ret enhancement an rat the 263 promote young fle

‘The shoo s ropsing 1 use two eons inthe Highway Pentecostal Church x asrooms one for
Kindersten se oe fr Toles a5 wel 9 delat oom for ance soc. The looms fe
‘ure nt being wed by the Chureh sd or have storage that an bo moved to othe locales. A
‘ened yard wil be used as eutdoor lay space lor he chlren. The yd space not creat belng
‘sed by the Church. Te fact proves ample parking othe schol. The puking at provides 190
spaces which's ample parking or what we equi School dropoff ties Mona: Fday830-:4Sam
‘and pick up at 335-3:30pm, 9s welas few 11450 (hal dy) ick’ Th wl not afte parking
‘ace orale he Church asthe buses tne isthe weekend when schoo s ot nseson. Oo
Carrethndeprtencsscom has mmm of 26 cre nd Toddler Room woud have 3
‘maximum of 2 elven. Several thes spaces ae sibigs and theeore rv nd iaave Inne ca.
The schools nota large fact tha wou aft he ao acing the ity.

‘The rezoning request wouldbe to tee the zoning 3 instal and tke cute spun thats
for Church use ony Weare requesting hs hang in onng because the hatha been odin fo 30
deqiate space for over year an have been ural oid anything sabe uti now. We were
under the impression, as was the Church that the zoning was ine ask was istuto. Al pares were
unaware ofthe sipuaon Duet tie constants an the tio and ne putin fing 3 stable
‘pace the schoo wilde unable toler a Tod Program n September 2016s phoned But we ae
requesting rezoning so we can continue the proces of expanding od oles Teder Program 3 200
‘ss pouble to that ais wating


Page 46 of 78

‘SCHEDULE “C” - REPORT 2016-131-10

“The mooting was called to order at 6:09 pm

2016-116-09
Proposed Amendment to Official Plan and Zoning By-law 050-2014

{800 Stewart Boulevard, Brockville

‘Owner: Pentecostal Assemblies of Canada (Highway Pentecostal Church)
Applicant: Brockville Montessori Schoo!

Moved by: Councillor LeSueur

THAT Report 2016-116-09 be received as Information and that a report on this matter be
prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic Development Planning Committee
ata future meeting.

CARRIED

Councilor Deery, Chair, introduced the public meeting and read from the prepared required
‘comments.

\Mr. Faurschou announced that notice of the Public Meeting was advertised in the Brockville
Recorder and Times Newspaper on August 11, 2016 and was circulated to property owners
within 120.0 metres (400.0 feet) of the subject property. In addition, signs were posted on the
‘subject property advising thatthe lands are the subject of an Application for Amendment to the
Cty of Brockville Official Plan and Zoning By-law 060-2014.

Councilor Deory, Chair, asked that any person wanting further notice of the passage of the
proposed amendment should give their full name, address and postal code fo the Secretary
prior to leaving the mooting.

Councilor Deery reviewed the procedures forthe Public Meeting. :
(Mr. Faurschou provided an overview of the proposed zoning amendment.

Mrs. Mary Jane Lestie and Ms. Erica Swirsky, Brockville Montessori School were in attendance
10 answer questions.

‘No persons completed the ‘Request for Information”
The meeting adjourned at 6:21 pn.”

Excerpt from: City of Brockville
Economic Development and Planning Committee Publle Meeting Minutes,
Tuesday, September 06, 2016


Page 47 of 78

‘SCHEDULE “D” - REPORT 2016-131-10

COMMENTS RECEIVED


+
Received)
AUG 04 2016
PLANNING

&

Ihave looked into the drinking water system at the Highway Pentecostal Church at 800
Stewart Blvd. Curently itis being inspected by this agency asa small drinking water
system under O, Reg 319 ofthe Health Protection and Promotion Act. Their dreotive states
that they must sample the water for bacteriological parameters (total coliform and E. coli)
every 3 months. Their sampling history was reviewed and they have been compliant with
their requirements and there are no significant concerns about the safety of the water at that
location at this time

Hello Mary Jane,

As mentioned in our discussion on July 7, a licensed child care center is cot
institution and as such will be subject to inspection and regulation by the Ministry of|
Environment and Climate Change under O. Reg 170 of the Safe Drinking Water Act. The
‘MOECC may have additional requirements regarding sampling and modifications to the
system if you proceed with the child care centre at this location,

Also of importance, if you plan to prepare food for the children at this location, the kitchen,
‘must comply with O. Rez 562 Food Premises Regulation ofthe Health Protection and
Promotion Act. The church kitchen is not currently inspected by this agency. We request
that you provide the health unit with floor plans including location and number of sinks,

washer, equipment etc. if you decide to proceed. Please refer to the health unit’s Guide.
10 Opening a Food Premises for more information.

Regards,

Courtney Shaffer, BSe, BASc, CPHI(C)
Public Health Inspector

Infectious Diseases Program

Leeds, Grenville & Lanark District Health Unit
Pax: (613) 345-577


Page 49 of 78

Cc Leeds, Grenville & Lanark District

HEALTH UNIT

September 12016

Distr of aning
Gay of trove

1 lg St West
Beekvile ON K6V 7AS

ear Sia:

Re: Zoning Appleton: 009-05 nd DIL. O16
‘ner: Highway Pectocorl Charch
Uncton: £00 Stemat id
Sori 49 -

Pes: be advised that our comes wil e povided eee an inspection of he se
completed We have nif te popes owner of te ned to complete na suet an
‘pplication fore Mainenace Inspecon our efe

youve ay questions pease do not ost to contact.
‘Your Paton Pui Het

‘THE CORPORATION OF THE LEEDS, GRENVILLE.
AND LANARK DISTRICT HEALTH UNIT

ob Fam

Mat Gren, BA, CPRKC)
(Cie Bung Ocal
Pa Vil Progen

(613) 45-5685~ Oftce
(613) 345-7166 Fax

TecthACTION ine 800.660.5853 + wirmhealthnitorg * contactoheathunton


Page 50 of 78

26 September 2016
REPORT TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE - 04 OCTOBER
2016

2016-132-10
ROCKFORD FOREST SUBDIVISION M, PASCOE MERKLEY
PRE-SERVICING AGREEMENT DIRECTOR OF PLANNING.
OWNER: CATHEDRAL ENTERPRISES LTD. ‘ANDREW MCGINNIS
FILE: 08T-14501 PLANNER IL

RECOMMENDATION:

THAT the Mayor and Clerk be authorized to execute a Pre-Servicing Agreement
between the Corporation of the City of Brockville and Cathedral Enterprises Ltd, for

various work on lands described as Part of Lot 11, Concession 2, City of Brockville,

County of Leeds, being the Rockford Forest Subdivision, subject to finalization and )
acceptance by staff of the servicing design and issuance of any required Ministry of the

Environment and Climate Change (MOECC) approvais

PURPOSE:

To consider and make recommendation on a request to allow for pre-servicing of the
Rockford Forest Subdivision.

ORIGIN/BACKGROUND:

Matthew Eyre, acting as Agent for Cathedral Enterprises Lid., owner of lands described
as Part of Lot 11, Concession 2, City of Brockville, County of Leeds, has requested that :
the City consider entering into a Pre-Servicing Agreement to permit construction of .
various work within the subdivision as described in detail elsewhere in this report prior .
to obtaining final Subdivision Approval

A sketch showing the total area of Rockford Forest Subdivision with the subject area
identified in red is attached to this report as Schedule “A”.

Once all approvals are in place, the area will be developed as four (4) single detached
residential dwelling units, eight (8) semi-detached residential dwelling units, and eleven
(11) townhouse dwelling units

ANALYSIS:

On 09 June 2015, Council approved Resolution 2015-062-06 wherein Draft Approval
was granted for the subdivision of lands described as Part of Lot 11, Concession 2, City
of Brockville, County of Leeds. This area is part of what is known as the extension of |
Flanders Road Phase | and will connect the extension of Flanders Road to Laurier

Boulevard. A copy of Resolution 2015-062-06 indicating conditions of draft approval for


Page 51 of 78

2016-13240 Page 2
Proposed Pre-Servicing Agreement

Rockford Forest Subdivision

‘Owner: Cathedral Enterprises Ltd.

File: | 08T-14501

Rockford Forest Subdivision has been attached to this report as Schedule “B”.

On 30 June 2015, an appeal of Council's decision to the Ontario Municipal Board
(OMB) was received. Various reasons were provided. On 18 October 2015, the OMB
held a pre-hearing conference by teleconference call. For this pre-hearing, there was no
representation by the appellant. Subsequently, the OMB ordered the dismissal of the
appeal of the City’s decision to approve the draft plan of subdivision proposed by
Cathedral Enterprises Ltd. on 20 January 2016.

As the developer may now proceed with the subdivision approval process, there are
some conditions of approval that need to be satisfied prior to any commencement of
work. Specifically, there were buttemut trees, one being identified through the
Environmental Impact Statement as ‘Archivable’ that needed to be reviewed and
examined by the Ministry of Natural Resources and Forestry (MNRF), Based on
information received by this office, the Ministry has completed its review, scions were
‘obtained and a C-Permit has been drafted and sent to the Minister for execution. Once
the C-Permit is issued, the developer may remove the tree. Until such time that a C-
Permit is issued, a 25 metres buffer, as shown on Schedule “C” must be maintained
and “Best Management Practices” must be followed, specifically, but not limited to, no
tree harvesting during April 15 to July 15 in order to comply with the requirements of the
Migratory Birds Conservation Act.

Mr. Eyre is concurrently working towards meeting all draft conditions to receive Final
‘Approval for the Rockford Forest Subdivision. In order to facilitate the construction of
the subdivision, the matter of a Pre-Servicing Agreement has been put forward.

‘The owner/developer has advised the Planning Department that due to time constraints,
he wishes to proceed with the installation of services and associated works prior to
obtaining Final Subdivision Approval for Rockford Forest. This approach would enable
work on the site to be undertaken by the owner while concurrently working towards
meeting other conditions of Final Subdivision Approval

No financial security is required for pre-servicing and all work is done at the sole risk of
the developer. Construction typically is undertaken and inspected as per City
Tequirements. This approach ensures a smooth transition to final subdivision approval
and ultimately to City assumption of the work as detailed in the final Subdivision
Agreement. The developer will also be completing work required under the previous
phase being Flanders Road, Phase |. This work is being done under prior approvals to
enable completion of said phase as a logical progression of development.

Under a Pre-Servicing Agreement, the lands may be fully or partially serviced while still
under ownership of the developer and before public highways are established which

Page 52 of 78

2016-132-10 Page 3
Proposed Pre-Servicing Agreement

Rockford Forest Subdivision

Owner: Cathedral Enterprises Ltd.

File: 08T-14501

‘occurs at the time of registration of the plan of subdivision.

If supported, a Pre-Servicing Agreement would be prepared for execution by Cathedral
Enterprises Ltd. and the City which would provide Cathedral Enterprises Ltd. with
permission to commence the construction of underground services and base roadway,
to be completed in accordance with the design drawings issued by Eastern Engineering
Group, set out requirements with respect to inspection of work, and establish an
appropriate stage for final approval and registration of the Plan of Subdivision. Upon
registration of the Plan of Subdivision, the Subdivision Agreement would replace the
Pre-Servicing Agreement, and financial security in the form of a Letter of Credit in the
value of the remaining work would be posted by the developer as a condition of the
Subdivision Agreement.

The concept of a Pre-Servicing Agreement has been utllzed for some previous
subdivisions (Wildwood Subdivision - Phases | and Il). If the Pre-Servicing Agreement
is endorsed, the developer would proceed with underground servicing and base road
‘construction as soon as possible.

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS:

‘The developer is responsible for all costs associated with the Pre-Servicing Agreement,
including associated fees per the City’s User Fee By-law. All other costs associated
with servicing of the lands within the proposed subdivision are the responsibilty of the
developer.

CONCLUSIONS:

‘The developer's request for a Pre-Servicing Agreement to provide for the installation of
services and other works on the future extension of Flanders Road in the Rockford
Forest Subdivision in advance of the Final approval for Plan of Subdivision is
supportable.

M. Pascoe Merkley, MCIP, RE Andrew McGinnis, MCIP, RPP, DipL.M.M.
Director of Planning Planner Il
i

Bob Casselman
City Manager

Page 53 of 78

SCHEDULE “A” TO REPORT 2016-132-10

\
ULoREST oawe


Page 54 of 78

‘Schedule “B” — Report 2016-132-10

Excerpt from City of Brockville Council

jinutos of June 9, 2016

2015-062-06

Draft Approval, Proposed Plan of Subdivision
Part Lot 11, Concession 2, City of Brockville
Rockford Forest Subdivision

‘athedral Enterprises Ltd.

Agent: Eastern Engineering Group Inc.
o8T-14501

Moved by: Councillor Kalivas

‘THAT approval be granted to the Draft Plan of Subdivision on lands described as Part
of Lot 11, Concession 2, City of Brockvile, County of Leeds, subject to the following
conditions:

D)

ii)

That these conditions shall apply to the Draft Plan prepared by Robert J. Jordan,
O.LS., dated 22 July 2014, showing one street, Flanders Road, and Blocks 1
through 12, inclusive, said Road and Blocks being delineated as to use on the
afore-mentioned Draft Plan;

“That the proposed Street shown on this Draft Plan shall be dedicated as a public
highway to be named "Flanders Road";

‘That prior to final approval of the Plan, the Owner shall enter into a Subdivision
Agreement with the City of Broclwille which shall specify, among other things:

1. Allof the requirements, financial and otherwise, of the City of Brockville
concerning, but not limited to, the provision of roads, street lighting,
‘easements and the installation of services, drainage facilities, as well as

a) the provision of screening of dwellings located on Fitzsimmons
Drive which back onto Flanders Road, and

b) _cash-intiou of parkland dedication,
2. The requirement of the Broclville Fire Department for an acceptable

umber of hydrant locations and capacity and location to ensure
emergency servicos access and firefighting capabilities;


i)

»

Page 55 of 78 |
|

‘The requirements of Canada Post with respect to the location, installation
‘of Community Mailboxes and associated easement(s) and consideration
of various conditions as set out by Canada Post. In addition, all such work
must comply with current Canada Post requirements as provided by
Canada Post at the timo of start of construction;

4, The requirements of Enbridge Gas Distribution Inc., with respect to the
provision of easement(s), installation and clearance requirements, 3
composite utlity plan, ‘street grading requirements, field survey
Information, road cross-sections, and consideration of various other
conditions as set out by Enbridge Gas Distribution Inc.;

5. The requirements of Hydro One Networks Inc. with respect to the
instalation of electrical servicing, associated easement(s) and restriction
‘of development on the existing 10.06 m easement;

6. The requirements of Cogeco Cable Canada Inc. with respect to the
provision of easement(s) and installation of Cable servicing and
associated easement(s);

7. The requirements of Bell with respect fo the provision of easement(s) and
installation of communicationftelecommunication infrastructure and
consideration of various other conditions as set out by Bell,

8 The developer's responsibilty to prepare a Tree Saving Plan and Tree
Planting Schedule for each lot for review and approval by the City of
Brockville prior to development of each lot

9. Placement of a 26 metre buffer around the “Archivable* tree on Lot 6.
Removal and subsequent development of the lots affected by the buffer is.
subject to obtaining wiitlen approval from the Ontario Ministry of Natural
Resources and Forestry (MNRF),

That prior to final approval of the Plan, lot grading, drainage, erosion and
sediment control, and services plan with best management practices be prepared
by a qualified Professional Engineer for the Owner, to the satisfaction of the City
of Brockville and the Cataraqui Region Conservation Authority, and that
appropriate text to implement its findings shall be included in the Subdivision
Agreement,

‘That prior to the final approval of the Plan, a detailed Stormwater Management
Brief shall be prepared by a qualified Professional Engineor for the Owner, to the
satisfaction of the City of Brockville and the Cataraqul Region Conservation
‘Authority, and that appropriate text to implement its findings shall be included in
the Subdivision Agreement;


vi)

vil)

vil)

i)

xi)

xii)

Page 56 of 78

‘That in conjunction with the proposed construction plan, the Owner shall provide
specific locations and dates (0. set-up and removal) forall construction/sales
buildings, structures andlor trailers, ouldoor toilets, etc. Said locations shall be to
the satisfaction of the City of Brockvile prior to placement. Any and all such
temporary structures shall be located only for so long as is necessary for the
workin progress,

That no treo clearing shall be permitted until approval of a Tree Saving Plan for
‘each lot or block Is approved by the City of Brockville,

‘That “Best Management Practices” respecting woodlands, and in particular,
Buttemut tees as specitied in the Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) by
Ecological Services be followed. Said practices to include, but not be limited to,
continuing the process to address remediation, avoidance measures and
removal measures as they apply to Butternut trees identified under the EIS and
{8 confirmed by various applications submitted under the Endangered Species
Act as managed by MNRF.

‘That the Owner shall be responsible forall costs involved with lands required to
be dedicated, conveyed or granted, including but not limited to, easement(s)
over, of under, to the City of Brockville andlor the appropriate authority or
authorities, and the conveyances to the City of Brockville of Blocks 11 and 12 as
0.3 metre reserves,

‘That prior to Final approval of this Plan, the owner shall pay any and all
‘outstanding taxes levied against the Plan;

‘That, if final approval of the Plan is not granted within three (3) years of the date
of approval of the Draft Plan, and no extensions have been granted, Draft Pian
approval shall lapse in accordance with Section 51(32) of the Planning Act,
RS.O. 1990, c.P.13. Itis the sole responsibilty of the Owner to make such
pplication for extension of Draft Pian approval; and

‘That the Final Plan, as approved by the City of Brockville, must be registered
within sixty (60) days of the date of final approval or the City’s approval may be
withdrawn in accordance with Section 51(59) of the Planning Act, R.S.0. 1990,
P13,

CARRIED


Page 57 of 78
SCHEDULE “C” TO REPORT 2016-132-10

nemo =

an


Page 58 of 78

‘September 28th, 2016
REPORT TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING ~ TUESDAY October 4, 2016

2016-133-10 DAVID C. PAUL
DMF LOAN AGREEMENT DIRECTOR OF ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM

RECOMMENDATION

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee recommend that Council enter
into a loan agreement (with interest), with a not-for-profit organization, known as Brockville
‘Accommodation and Attraction Partners, in the amount of $50,000 with milestones and
repayment terms to be negotiated and presented to Counc

THAT the subject funds be utilized to establish the governance structure for a Brockville
Destination Marketing fee program utlizing the 3% Bed Tax for tourism related
programming and tourism product development, and further that the funds be secured
from general cash with an appropriate loan receivable account to be established,

PURPOSE
‘The purpose is to provide loan funding to establish a DMF program for Brockville
BACKGROUND

* Since 2010, the City has been desirous to establish a DMF for the purpose of
enhancing marketing exposure of Brockville and area tourism attractions and.
industry products and services.

‘+ The DMF recommendation has been duly noted in both internal/external City
service reviews and included in the work plans of the Economic Development
office.

‘+ The City and the Brockville Chamber of Commerce has not been successful in
convincing the local accommodation properties to participate in such a program.

‘* Brockville is one of the only corridor communities not participating in a DMF with all
local neighboring communities of Comwall, Gananoque, and Kingston,
experiencing successful operating organizations,

‘© The proposed not-for-profit structure has secured the support of both the local
accommodation and attraction operators, yet requires seed funding on a loan basis
‘to execute the work plan and process.

Page 59 of 78

2016-133-10
DMF Loan Agreement Page 2

ANALYSIS.

+ The proposed not for-profit structure represents the best-case scenario to
implement a DMF with Brockville accommodation and attraction operators.

+ Based on total annual room nights rented in Brockville and attraction ticket sales, a
projected revenue in excess of $175,000 is a realistic Year One target, as
‘supplementary funding towards enhanced advertising promotion of the City’s
tourism products.

‘+ The increased Brockville attraction base with the Aquatarium and the future Tunnel
project provide forthe rationale regarding the preferred timing to launch such an
initiative

‘+ The DMEF will assist in establishing Brockville competitive positioning with other
Eastem Ontario communities who currently enjoy this supplementary revenue from
the guest receipts.

‘+ The PowerPoint attached, Appendix A, outlines further details on the benefits of a
DMF, including the process and governance recommendation.

‘+The revenues from a DMF will provide capacity and leverage for funding with the
provincial Great Waterway programming on a 1:1 basis.

‘+ The written letters of intent from accommodation and attraction operators represent
the most successful response to establish a DMF for the community.

ear

‘loan agreement will facilitate the operation of a DMF for Brockvile by January, 2017.
(Que DC>

a Bowe

oo

. cman

City Manager


Brockville

Destination Marketing Program


Destination Marketing

Program

What is it?

In Ontario, Destination Marketing Programs (DMPs) are
voluntary industry-led initiatives that have existed in several
destinations at different points in time since 2004.

An amount remitted by providers of transient accommodation in
a destination or region, for the purpose of supporting regional
tourism marketing and development.

8210 19 abe

Destination Marketing

Program

History

Historically, participating hotels have voluntarily remitted fees
(3% of room revenues) to their accommodation industry
association who then transferred funds to a local or regional
non-profit destination marketing organization to promote their
city or region

Participating attractions remit a 50 cent per ticket per paying
guest or an annual partnership fee

8210 29 obeg

Destination Marketing

Program

Tourism Funding

In 2012, the Ontario Government established a yearly fund of
approximately $200,000. This fund can be accessed by
participating regions within RTO 9 (The Great Waterway)
through partnership proposal submission.

Brockville has benefited from these programs through
partnership proposals over the past few years:

1. City signs on 401 — East and West

2. Brockville 401 Profile Signs ~ East and West
3. Brockville Tourism Mobile Friendly Application
4. Garden Tourism Initiative

5. Aquatarium Banner and Billboard Program

6. Search Engine Optimization Programs

7. Downtown Shuttle Bus

8210 £9 9604

Destination Marketing
Program

8210 49 abe

Destination Marketing

Program

Today

Cities and regions that have successfully implemented a
Destination Marketing Program

Ottawa Cornwall

Gananoque Kingston

Hastings County — Prince Edward County
Bay of Quinte Toronto

82.10.59 abe

Destination Marketing

Program

Kingston
DMP 1. 2 Million

82 10.99 abe


Destination Marketing

Program

Gananoque
DMP $250 000

82 10 99 abe

Destination Marketing

Program

Brockville
> DMP $0

Destination Marketing

Program

Brief History

> In 2009, a DMP was started in Brockville with only one hotel
participating.

> In 2010-11, Brockville’s DMP was dissolved with the start of
RTOS9, The Great Waterway.

» Since that time Brockville has been trying to re-establish a DMP for
Brockville and 1000 Islands Region without success.

8210 0 abe

Destination Marketing

Program

Recognizing the need for and, the value of having a DMP for the
Brockville and 1000 Islands Region, an independent,
provincially incorporated not-for-profit group is being set
up to overseeing the implementation and management of the
DMP.

The organization will be know as Brockville Accommodation and
Attraction Partners (BAAP) and made up of an Executive
Director governed by a nine member Board of Directors

8210 12 9604

Destination Marketing

Program

Brockville Accommodation and Attraction Partners —
Remittance Structure

Accommodation Partner Remittance
+ 3% fee PAID by the “Guest”
Attraction Partner Remittance

» 650 cents per ticket sold PAID by “Guest” or
an annual partnership fee

8210 22 9604

Destination Marketing

Program

Brockville Accommodation and Attraction Partners —
Partner Benefit

Vv vv

vv

Participation in a broader level marketing program

Participation in advertising, marketing, entertainment and special
events development, product development and research activities
Participation in marketing initiatives that budgets may otherwise
limit i.e. Television and Radio Campaigns

Broader brand recognition

Have a say in shaping the Brockville and the 1000 Islands Tourism
Sector

82 10 €2 9be4

Destination Marketing

Program

Brockville Accommodation and Attraction Partners —
City of Brockville and 1000 Islands Region Benefits

» More visitors to Brockville and 1000 Islands Region

» More tourism dollars spent with Brockville businesses

> More overnight stays - “more heads in beds”

» More consistent marketing programs resulting in a higher profile
for the City of Brockville and the 1000 Islands Region

82 10 ps obe4

(2393492

Destination Marketing

Program

Brockville Accommodation and Attraction Partners —
Revenue Projections

» Accommodation Partners: Based on 2014 and 2015 PKF trends DMP
revenue for 2017 is projected at $226,568

» Attraction Partners:

> Aquatarium: Based on a projection of 60 000 visitors, DMP revenue
for 2017 is projected at $30 000.00

> Brockville Arts Centre: Based on a projection of 40 000 visitors, DMP
revenue for 2017 is projected at $20 000.00

8210 Sz 9604

Destination Marketing

Program

Brockville Accommodation and Attraction Partners —
Request to the City of Brockville

Brockville Accommodation and Attraction Partners is asking
the City of Brockville for a short-term start up loan in the
amount of $50,000 to assist with administrative and operating
expenses for the first year.

82 10 94 9604

Destination Marketing

Program

Brockville Accommodation and Attraction Partners —
Use of Funds

VVVVVVVV

Start-up Coop Advertising Fund
Salary

Rent

Office Equipment & Supplies
Insurance

Legal Fees

Brand Development

Membership Fees — i.e. International Travel Council etc.

8210 £2 9be4

Destination Marketing

Program

Brockville Accommodation and Attraction Partners

To date, we have a number of accommodation and attraction

partners who have signed letters of intent to enter into a term

agreement with the Brockville Accommodation and Attraction

Partners by January 1, 2017 with more expected in the weeks
to come.

8210 84 9604

