Page

11-26

Page 1 of 116

Economic Development and

Planning Committee
Tuesday, December 6, 2016, 5:15 pm
City Hall, Council Chambers

Areas of Responsibility

Councillor D. LeSueur, Economic Development Economic Development
Chair Planning Advisory Team.
Councillor J. Baker Chamber of Commerce Museum Board
Councillor 3. Earle DBIA Ubrary Board
Councillor M. Kalivas Heritage Brockville Arts Centre
Mayor D. Henderson, Tourism
Ex-Officio

COMMITTEE AGENDA

Disclosure of Interest

Delegations and Presentations

Immigrant Entrepreneur Attraction Research Project
Jacqueline Schoemaker Holmes, PhD
Project Researcher: Immigrant Entrepreneur Attraction

Ms, Schoemaker Holmes will review her presentation for the
Committee.

Correspondence

Nil.

Staff

1

Reports

2016-151-12
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014,
North West Corner King St. W. at Clarissa Street
City of Brockville

Owner: McKercher Bros. (Brockville) Ltd.

Agent: Michael Brewer

THAT Zoning By-law 050-2014 be amended to rezone lands located
at the northwest corner of King St. West and Clarissa St., described
a8 Part of Lots 24 to 27, Block 44, Plan 67, being Parts 1 and 2 on

27-31

32-39

Page 2 of 116

Economic Development and Planning Committee
December 6, 2016

3

Reference Plan 28R-14064, from MD ~ Mixed Use Downtown Zone
to T-MD-1 Mixed Use Downtown Special Exception Zone to permit a
“Refreshment Vehicle” for a temporary period of three (3) years, in
addition to the other uses permitted in the MD - Mixed Use
Downtown Zone, with zone provisions associated with the
“Refreshment Vehicle” to include specific locational criteria,
installation of a bicycle rack, and prohibition on associated outside
storage, accessory structures and with provision for landscaping.

2016-152-12
Renewal of Pound Contract

THAT the Corporation of the City of Brockville enters into a two year
contract with Sally Bell operating as "MeowTown Luxury Resort for
Cats” at 840 Stewart Boulevard to continue the relationship as
Pound Keeper for the City.

2016-153-12
Acceptance of Transfer of Land for

Brock Trail, Cancellation of Fitzsimmons Drive Sidewalk
Construction and Amendment of Subdivision Agreement
Bridlewood Subdivision, Plan 375

Owner 653973 Ontario Limited

1. THAT the City accepts the transfer, at no cost to the City, of
2 1.0 ha parcel of land east of Bridlewood Drive from 653973
Ontario Limited required by the City for purposes of the Brock
Trail extension, in exchange for a release from the obligation
in the Bridlewood Subdivision Agreement to construct a
sidewalk on the north side of Fitzsimmons Drive from
Montrose Street westerly to the west edge of Plan 375.

2. THAT the Subdivision Agreement between Dodge and Dodge
Corporation Limited and the Corporation of the City of
Brockville under By-law 234-81, as amended, be further
amended to address deletion of a portion of the sidewalk on
the north side of Fitzsimmons Drive from Montrose Street
westerly to the west edge of Plan 375 and conveyance of land
for the Brock Trail extension.

Page 3 of 116

Economic Development and Planning Committee
December 6, 2016

40-44
45-46 5,
47-112 6.
113-116 7.

2016-154-12
Request for Acceptance and Release
Phases 1 to 4, Plan 375

Bridlewood Subdivision, City of Brockville
‘Owner: 653973 Ontario Limited

THAT Council authorizes the enactment of a by-law for final
acceptance of the work and infrastructure within Phases 1 through 4
inclusive of Bridlewood Subdivision and to discharge obligations
under the Subdivision Agreement, as amended, between Dodge and
Dodge Corporation Limited and the Corporation of the City of
Brockville, as it applies to Phases 1 through 4, save and except
Clauses 16(a), 16(b) and 16(c).

2016-155-12
Renewal of Agreement with the
Commissionaires Inc., Kingston and Region
Division for Parking Enforcement

THAT Council for the Corporation of the City of Brockville accept the
agreement with the Commissionaires Inc. Kingston and Region
Division for the provision of parking enforcement services for the
period of February 1, 2017 to January 31, 2018.

2016-156-12
Immigration Attraction Report

THAT the Economic Development and Planning committee receive
the Immigration Attraction Report and direct the Economic
Development Office to provide recommendations for further
consideration by EDP/Council on the execution of the actions noted
therein; and further,

THAT the subject report include related budget and timing
implications to achieve deliverables of the report.

2016-157-12
Architectural Services
Railway Tunnel Phase 2

THAT MTBA Associates Inc. be retained to develop concepts for the
former railway lands northeast of William and Brock Streets,

Page 4 of 116

Economic Development and Planning Committee
December 6, 2016

including a public consultation process, for a fee of $84,764.85 plus
HST; and

THAT this expenditure be charged to account 9701101-9037001.

New Business - Reports from Members of Council
Nil.

Consent Agenda
Brainstorming

Adjournment

THAT the Economic Development and Planning Committee adjourned

its meeting until the next regular meeting scheduled for January 3,
2017.

01/12/2016
Page 5 of 116

[A TOOLKIT FOR ATTRACTING IMMIGRANT ENTREPRENEURS.
TO SMALL CTY CANADA

ee
‘PURPOSE OF THE TOOLKIT
1 7o provide recommendations

2 To bul capacty


[EEE sts

—
‘CITES OF MIGRATION

Tei the “capacity of
ery cy inthe werd
to provide a beter
elcome and contrite
{o eign success by
creating conto for

and belonging”

“as the major politcal body within
the local commu, they direct
plc, delver essential services and
‘ae uniielypostoned to act nimbly
nd implement natives tht lad
‘ck and meaningful changes
Municipal governments “have the
unique capac ounce publ
‘opinion and bring diverse interests
{Opaer forthe eommon good”

—
PROJECT OVERVIEW

tothe wea?

fay

ee ee

‘Started in February 2016 to vestigate innovative ways
to attract immigrant entrepreneurs.

How can the Cty of Brochile's capacity can be further
eveloped to tract and ttanimrantentepreneurs

01/12/2016
Page 6 of 116

01/12/2016
Page 7 of 116

[EEE sts .

—
‘meTHODOLOGY

THREE LINES OF INQUIRY

» To undertake a situational analysis to better
Understand Brockil’s current immigrant
cenrepreneurs

» To colt best practoes of smiaeszed
communes inte reper

» To evaluat the potential for bridge bung
sit Ottawa-ares embassies and eine
business assocatiors

[mE sts mm .

osIe woDeL


[EEE sts

a
(OVERARCHING RECOMMENDATIONS

‘TARGET ONE: INCLUSION & OVERSITY
2 more inchsive commasity that
erates ders

TARGET TWO: REGIONALZING
Becoming a ammenty wre secondary meats

[mE sts mm

ee
FINDINGS & RECOMMENDATIONS.
LOCAL IMMIGRANT ENTREPRENEURS:

+ Need for the Cty of Bock ohh the
ually of Ie and strate cation of Brocka

* Need for mare employment opportunities andthe
_ayacton of compares to emp People

+ Supports and series must be in place

01/12/2016
Page 8 of 116

01/12/2016
Page 9 of 116

[EEE sts .

ee

FINDINGS & RECOMMENDATIONS.

EMBASSIES & BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS:

= dent he kind of enrepreneuriestmert the
Cy of Bechle would he to atacand then
‘slblsh an del method of atraction

+ connect wih te Canadian embassies nthe
‘counties whete the dua and companies exist

+ Talo attraction efforts to what he residents ofthe
source county ae locking for

» Brad in sch away that turism and inition
swe comecied

[mE sts mm ’

ine TONS

ext FUNONG

+ Pato esters cn sh

» oat opton state

+ eau fie a tap ton 8m ap aes
+ Boxe Cra Ants Progam (UP)

+ Collaborate wth other municipalities on regional immigration
vacton sates

* Adopt a targeted secondary miant attraction strategy

+ Use targeted residential attraction strategies rected at national and
inteatonal ours including advertsing ete mesa outs


01/12/2016
Page 10 of 116

ine TONS

REQUIRING ABDONAL FUNONG:

» re Oe ety an sen te

> Ty oat at gop by bs

+ nh yt me an gan act
+ Prat cen an eae ehh rd Engh
+ Ponstel’ us iat ad aang bly
(Circe coy enna sang cae
Soares apr

+ Halp wth the immigration proces for india inching advocating
{or Streamined and advanced scredtaton services

‘A TOOLKIT FOR ATTRACTING IMMIGRANT ENTREPRENEURS
TO SMALL CITY CANADA


Page 11 of 116

24November2016
REPORT TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE -
O6DECEMBER2016

2016-151-12
PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO ZONING M. PASCOE MERKLEY
BY-LAW 080-2014, NORTH WEST CORNER DIRECTOR OF PLANNING
KING ST. W. AT CLARISSA STREET ‘ANDREW MCGINNIS
CITY OF BROCKVILLE PLANNER Il

OWNER: MCKERCHER BROS. (BROCKVILLE) LTD.
AGENT: MICHAEL BREWER
FILE: D14-017 0.2014)

RECOMMENDATION

THAT Zoning By-law 050-2014 be amended to rezone lands located at the northwest
‘comer of King St. West and Clarissa St., described as Part of Lots 24 to 27, Block 44,
Plan 67, being Parts 1 and 2 on Reference Plan 28R-14064, from MD — Mixed Use
Downtown Zone to T-MD-1 Mixed Use Downtown Special Exception Zone to permit a
"Refreshment Vehicle" for a temporary period of three (3) years, in addition to the other
uses permitted in the MD ~ Mixed Use Downtown Zone, with zone provisions
associated with the “Refreshment Vehicle” to include specific locational criteria,
installation of a bicycle rack, and prohibition on associated outside storage, accessory
structures and with provision for landscaping

PURPOSE

To provide a recommendation regarding an application to amend Zoning By-law 050-
2014, respecting vacant lands on the east side of 260 King Street West (Leon’s) to be
used as a temporary use for a Refreshment Vehicle and all other MD — Mixed Use
Downtown Zone uses.

BACKGROUND

‘The subject property, adjacent to 260 King Street West, is zoned MD ~ Mixed Use
Downtown Zone. Since 2007, under a site-specific zoning, a refreshment vehicle has
been permitted as a temporary use on the subject lands. The approval for the
temporary use expired on 12 November 2016; therefore, the permission for the chip
wagon is no longer in effect and the zoning on the subject property has reverted back to
a MD — Mixed Use Downtown Zone.

McKercher Bros. (Brockville) Ltd., owner of the subject lands has authorized Mr
Michael Brewer to submit an application for amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-
law 050-2014 to reinstate a site specific zoning on the subject lands to allow a
Refreshment Vehicle as a temporary use for a three (3) year period. Mr. Brewer
purchased the Refreshment Vehicle from the previous owners, Ms. Couture and Ms.
Ker. It has been operating beside 260 King Street West since the fall of 2007.

‘Schedule “A” is a key plan showing the location of the subject property. Schedule
“B” contains photographs of the site,

2016-181-12 Pageige 12 of 116

Proposed Amendment To Zoning By-Law 060-2014
King St. Wat Clarissa St, City of Brockville
Owner: MeKercher Bros. (Brockvill) Ld.

AAgont: Michael Brower

Zoning and Official Plan Information:
Official Plan Designation: Downtown and Central Waterfront Area

Existing Zoning: MD — Mixed Use Downtown Zone

Proposed Zoning’ ‘T-MD-1 — General Commercial Downtown Special Exception

Zone, adding a Refreshment Vehicle as a permitted use for
‘a temporary period of three (3) years.

Frontage (King Street West): 30.5 m (100.06 feet)
Depth (average): 61.4 m 201.4 feet)
Site Area: 1,872.6 m (0.46 acres)

The subject site is extensively paved, and the chip wagon remains in place despite the
‘expiry of the previous temporary zoning,

‘Surrounding Land Uses

North: Former Anglican Church zoned MD-2 ~ Mixed Use Downtown Special
Exception Zone.

East: Marianna Residence seniors’ apartment building on Clarissa Street, zoned
8-2 Multiple Residential Special Exception Zone.

Single family residential dwelling (11 Clarissa Street), zoned MD - Mixed
Use Downtown Zone.

Convenience store and gas bar at the north east corner of Clarissa Street
and King Street West, zoned MD - Mixed Use Downtown Zone.

South: Metro Store with associated parking, zoned MD - Mixed Use Downtown
Zone.
West: Leon's Fumiture Store ~ MD — Mixed Use Downtown Zone,

Brockville Gymnastics Academy (west side of Gilmour Street) and Rotary
Park, zoned Open Space Zone.

Public Participation and Ing ved

‘The application has proceeded through the normal review process. On 1 November
2016 a Public Meeting was held by the Economic Development and Planning

2016-15142 Pagege 19 of 116
Proposed Amendment To Zoning By-Law 050-2014

‘King St. W. at Clarissa St, City of Brockville

Owner: MeKercher Bros. (Brockvill) Ltd

‘Agont: Michael Brewer

File: 1401710,

Committee. Notice of the Public Meeting was advertised in the Brockville Recorder and
Times on 6 October 2016 and was circulated to property owners within 120.0 metres of
the subject property. Comments from City Departments and affected agencies were
also solicited.

‘A copy of the minutes from the Public Meeting is attached as Schedule “C” to this,
report. Mr. Brewer, the applicant provided his regrets that he was not able to attend the
meeting, however his parents, Steven & Susan Brewer were in attendance and
provided their support in relation to the proposed rezoning,

‘The following comments were received from internal departments and agencies:

1. Peter Raabe, Director of Environmental Services: no concerns.

3. Brent Caskenette, Planning Department, Building and By-law Services Division’
‘no concerns.

4. Greg Healy, Chief Fire Prevention Officer: no concern.

5. Kim McCann, Senior Public Health Inspector, Leeds, Grenville & Lanark District
Health Unit: no concern

6. Allison Sadler, Enbridge Gas Distribution: no objections.

‘The following comments were received from a neighbour:

1. Neighbour - letter dated October 13, 2016 (copy of letter attached as Schedule .
“D" to this report)

No objection to permission for refreshment vehicle to locate on the subject
property as a temporary use provided the 6’ by 6' sign located near the sidewalk
fronting King Street West is removed. Does not object to signage located on or
within a few feet of the refreshment vehicle located well back in the parking lot. If
this condition cannot be met, then object to the renewal of the temporary special
‘exception zoning,

ANALYSISIOPTIONS,

The folowing seston provides an analysis of the applcaton in reference to the
Provndal Pley Staten, Ofca Plan and Zoning By a

Pr LP ent

‘The Provincial Policy Statement 2014 (PPS) issued under section 3 of the Planning Act
provides policy direction on matters of Provincial interest related to land use planning
and development. Section 3 of the Planning Act further directs that Council decisions
affecting planning matters “shall be consistent with” the Provincial Policy Statement.

2016-151-12 Pagage 14 of 116

Proposed Amendment To Zoning By-Law 050-2014
‘King St. W. at Clarissa St, City of Brockville.
jeKercher Bros. (Brockville) Ltd.

Part V of the PPS sets out various policies which describe the areas of Provincial
interest. Not all policies in the PPS are relevant to the planning matter under
consideration, and thus, only those relevant portions will be referenced below.

The application currently before the Economic Development Planning Committee and
Council proposes to amend Zoning By-law 050-2014 to permit a “Refreshment Vehicle”
in addition to the uses already permitted within the MD — Mixed Use Downtown Zone,

From a review of the PPS, there are some relevant statements/policies under Part V,
Section 1 “Building Strong Communities". The preamble in this section is a general
statement which reads as follows:

“Ontario's long-term prosperity, environmental health and social well-being
depend on wisely managing change and promoting efficient land use and
development pattems. Efficient land use and development patterns support
strong, livable and healthy communities, protect the environment and public
health and safely, and facilitate economic growth.”

This general statement is followed by more specific policies, including the following
references which are of relevance to this application for zoning by-law amendment

“1.1.3.1 Settlement areas shall be the focus of growth and their vitality and
regeneration shall be promoted.

“1.1.3.2 Land use patterns within settlement areas shall be based on:
‘a. densities and a mix of land uses which

a. efficiently use land and resources;

. are appropriate for, and efficiently use, the infrastructure and public
service facilities which are planned or available, and avoid the need
for their unjustified and/or uneconomical expansion; and

c. minimize negative impacts to air quality and climate change, and
promote energy efficiency in accordance with policy 1,8; and

. a range of uses and opportunities for intensification and redevelopment in
accordance with the criteria in policy 1.1.3.3."

“1.1.3.3 Planning authorities shall identify and promote opportunities for
intensification and redevelopment where this can be accommodated taking into
account existing building stock or areas, including brownfield sites, and the
availabilty of suitable existing or planned infrastructure and public service
facilities required to accommodate projected needs,

Intensification and redevelopment shall be directed in accordance with the
Policies of Section 2: Wise Use and Management of Resources and Section 3:
Protecting Public Health and Safety.”

2016.181-42 Page 15 of 116
Proposed Amendment To Zoning By-Law 050-2014
issa St, City of Brockil
(Brockville) Lt.

‘Agent: Michael Brower
Filo: D14017 pag

“1.3.1 Planning authorities shall promote economic development and

competitiveness by...

) providing opportunities for a diversified economic base, including
‘maintaining a range and choice of suitable sites for employment
uses which support a wide range of economic activities and
anillayy uses, and take into account the needs of existing and
future businesses:..."

The proposal represents intensification and utiization of the existing land stock. The
proposed property is located within close proximity to downtown, transit stops as well as,
offering easy access and service to residents within the area and pedestrians. who
utilize King Steet and the Brock Trail for walking, cycling or other means of
transportation

Given the above policies and considerations, it can be concluded that the proposed
Zoning By-law Amendment to permit a "Refreshment Vehicle” within the limits of the
‘subject lands is consistent with the relevant policies contained in the PPS.

Official Plan Considerations )

The Official Plan designates the subject property as “Downtown and Central Waterfront
‘Area’ within the Mixed Use Node.

The Official Plan’s goals are to create a sustainable City in terms of health and vitality,
that is economically viable and diverse, has high quality municipal services and
amenities, and is well planned.

Section 2.3 outlines strategic planning themes which includes “A Sustainable, Healthy,
and Vital City’, “An Economically Strong and Diverse City’, “A High Quality of City
Services and Amenities", and “A Well-Planned Responsive City’

‘Section 3 addresses building a healthy and sustainable City, More specifically, Section
3.2.2.1 states among others that development within the Mixed Use Nodes and
Corridors needs to be transit supportive and accommodate a range of uses. This
section continues by envisioning the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area as being
the primary focus for the greatest mix of commercial, retail, and service opportunities.
More specifically, the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area is the primary mixed-use
Node and is intended to accommodate residential, office, commercial, community
services, cultural activities, main street shops and boutiques, and related uses and
activities that reinforce the existing character of the downtown area,

Section 3.2.6 outlines policies for the scope of development within the “Downtown and
Central Waterfront Area", focusing on intensification and redevelopment, revitalization |
of the Downtown and Central Waterfront Area and which place an emphasis on the |
urban design and architecture being consistent with the guidelines contained within the


2016-181-12 Pagiage 16 of 116
Proposed Amendment To Zoning By-Law 050-2014

‘King St. W. at Clarissa St, City of Brockville

(Owner: MecKercher Bros. (Brockville) Ltd.

‘Agent: Michael Brewer

Flo: D14-017 so

Downtown Waterfront Master Plan and Urban Design Strategy.

Section 3.4.1.9 states that the City shall require that infill developments be compatibly
scaled and designed to enhance the character of the area,

‘The general Downtown and Central Waterfront Area policies are further refined under
Section 4.2.2 where, in addition to residential dwelling units being permitted,
‘commercial uses such as eating establishments, service and convenience retail and
similar types of uses shall also be permitted,

In reviewing the above policy considerations, many speak to compatibility with and
character of the downtown area. Historically, downtowns have been the main centre of
‘multiple ranges and varieties of commercial activity. More recently, mobile food vendors
such as the Refreshment Vehicle proposed are increasingly appearing in larger centres,
especialy in downtown settings where pedestrian activity is often greatest.

Other policies emphasize consistency with the urban design guidelines and
encouragement for quality development. As a mobile facility which is a chattel, these
considerations are not necessarily relevant, as a permanent building is not proposed

Section 6.4.2.2, Temporary Use By-laws, allows for the City to pass a temporary use
by-law to allow the temporary use of land, buildings or structures for a purpose
‘otherwise not permitted by the Zoning By-law for a specific period of time not to exceed
three (3) years. This section also states that it shall be the policy of the City that:

“1. temporary use by-law shall define the land to which it apples, and shall
Prescribe the period of time during which iti in effect.

2, The City may authorize a temporary use on a one-time basis or for a short
period of time on a periodic basis, where itis considered inappropriate by
the City to permit the proposed use on a permanent or continuing basis,
‘and where alternatives such as relocation are not practical.

3. The City may pass subsequent by-laws granting extensions of up to thee
8) years.

4, The City may extend this period by passing futher by-laws, subject to the
specific policies of this Plan,

5. Inenacting a temporary use by-law, the City shall consider the following

i. the proposed use shall be of a temporary nature, and shall not
entail major construction or investment on the part of the over so
that the owner shall not experience undue hardship in reverting to
the original uses upon the termination of temporary use provisions:

ji, the proposed use with the surrounding land uses and character of
the surrounding area;

i, the proposed use shall be properly serviced and not require the
extension or expansion of existing municipal services;

iv. the proposed use shall not create any trafic problems within the


2016-181-12 Page 17 of 116
Proposed Amendment To Zoning By-Law 050-2014

King St. W. at Clarissa St, City of Brockville

‘Owner: McKercher Bros. (Brockvill) Ltd

‘Agent: Michael Browor

File: D14-017 sna

surtounding area, or adversely affect the volume andlor type of
trafic commonly found on the areas roads;

. the proposed use shall provide parking facies entirely onsite;

vi. the proposed use shall generally be beneficial to the surrounding
community; and

Vi. the proposed use shall conform to the policies of this Plan

Where the proposed temporary use may not conform in its entirety with the
Official Plan, the City shall consider what isin the best interests of the public.”

Based on the policies listed, Council can provide for temporary zoning as the proposed
Refreshment Vehicle does not contradict any of the above policies. The proposal does
not entail major construction, has not created traffic problems in the past and does not
change the character of the Downtown Commercial Area.

‘The applicant has stated that the Refreshment Vehicle will continue to look and operate
as it has over the past nine (9) years.

The continuing operation provides opportunity for a take-out dining experience )
downtown which will co-ordinate well with the increase in seasonal traffic, special

events in the area, and being just a short distance from the Arts Centre. On balance, it

is not inconsistent with the Official Plan's goals and objectives for downtown

revitalization to provide for a Refreshment Vehicle on an existing paved parking lot

located within the downtown.

Downtown & Waterfront Master Plan and Urban Design Strategy

‘The Downtown and Waterfront Master Pian and Urban Design Strategy (OWMPUDS),
provides guidance on how to manage future growth, development, and change within
the downtown and waterfront area of the City. The DWMPUDS establishes community
planning and urban design principals to maintain the downtown and waterfront as a
healthy, livable and sustainable destination in the City. Guidelines speak to
reinforcement of the existing scale and character of the downtown area, and provide
reference to a high level of architectural treatment for buildings.

‘There is no reference to consideration of Refreshment Vehicles, food trucks or other
‘mobile uses within this area, as the focus for the strategy was on creating guidelines for .
‘more enduring development.

Zoning By-law Considerations: .

Due to the expiry of the temporary zoning, the current zoning on the subject property
has reverted back to MD ~ Mixed Use Downtown Zone, and therefore, the addition of a
Refreshment Vehicle to the list of uses permitted on the site would require an
amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014. For this to occur, a site-specific zone must be


2016-161-12 Pagaije 18 of 116

Proposed Amendment To Zoning By-L
King St. W. at Claieea St, City of Broch
‘Owner: McKercher Bros. (Brockville) Ltd.
‘Agont: Michael Brower

File: D14-017 a

created, in this instance, the T-MD-1 Mixed Use Downtown Special Exception Zone. It
is proposed that this zone will recognize all standard permitted uses and zone
provisions of the MD — Mixed Use Downtown Zone, in addition to a Refreshment
Vehicle as a temporary permitted use.

‘The continuation of a Refreshment Vehicle occupying a small portion of an underutilized
Parking area would be a logical fit forthe site on a temporary basis. In addition, the site
has ample parking to accommodate the patrons of the Refreshment Vehicle. Over the
past several years the Refreshment Vehicle has served a large market of downtown
employees, occupants of residential dwellings within close proximity, travelers along
King Street, and recreational enthusiasts utilizing the Brock Trail

Staff is of the opinion that the three (3) year temporary zoning should be continued.
‘The temporary zoning granted in 2007, 2010 and then again in 2013 has only seen two
(2) concems being filed with City Hall. ‘The first concern was in relation to the parking of
a U-Haul truck which was removed in 2013, and the utilization of a temporary sign for
advertisement. Planning Staff have spoken with the applicant and advised him of his,
advertising/signage options.

Although no concems were raised specifically relating to the "Refreshment Vehicle” at
the public meeting, its eecommended that consistent treatment for mobile food vendors.
should apply city wide. Accordingly, this use has occurred for multiple years on the site
and is under a new operator and a temporary zone is being recommended. This is to
ensure that the property and the proposed "Refreshment Vehicle” remain esthetically
pleasing jin this very prominent location in the city. This property is also a prime
redevelopment site, and therefore a temporary allowance for a “Refreshment Vehicle”
may help advance the notion of the site's value for an alternate, permanent use as
Permitted in the MD Zone,

‘The recommendation includes prohibition on outside storage and accessory structures
associated with the "Refreshment Vehicle’, locational criteria to establish a maximum
setback from the rear property line and’ exterior side yard in order to keep the
“Refreshment Vehicle" setback from street lines as well as prohibitions when non-
‘operational and if remaining on this site, the Refreshment Vehicle will be required to be
stored in accordance with the existing provisions under Zoning By-law 050-2014,

‘The recommendation also includes the provision to supply @ bicycle rack. This is
consistent with the requirement of Section 3.9 Bicycle Parking in the new Zoning By-law
since there is a change of use of the property proposed. Also, as with the previous
temporary zoning for a Refreshment Vehicle, it is recommended that there be
landscaping upgrades provided in the form of two (2) planter boxes,

‘Should the recommendation above be accepted by Council, the zone would read similar
to the following:

2016-46142 Page 19 0f 116
Proposed Amendment To Zoning By-Law 050-2014

icing St W. at Clarissa St, City of Brockvile

‘Owner: MeKercher Bros. (rock) Li.

“T-MD-A

{In addition to the uses permitted in the MD - Mixed Use Downtown Zone,
4 Refreshment Vehicle shall be permitted in the T-MD-1 Zone, for a three
(3) year period ending 13 December 2019.

The Refreshment Vehicle shall be located a maximum of 20.0 metres from
the rear property line and a minimum of 4.5 metres from the exterior side
property line (Clarissa Street)

'No outside storage or accessory structures are permitted in association
with the Refreshment Vehicle,

One (1) bicycle rack shall be provided adjacent to the Refreshment
Vehicle

All large garbage/refuse bins shall be concealed from view from the street
and stored in accordance with the applicable general provisions of this by-
law.

Landscaping in the form of a minimum of two (2) planter boxes shail be
provided adjacent fo the south and east faces of the Refreshment Vehicle.

Wien closed for the season, items associated with said Refreshment
Vehicle shall be concealed from view from the street.”

Council should be aware that temporary zoning can be imposed in accordance with
Section 39 of the Planning Act, R.S.. 1990. Prior to the end of the three (3) year
temporary zoning, the applicant may wish to apply for an extension of the temporary
use or altematively, for permanent zoning. There currently is a reduced fee for an
extension of a temporary use.

POLICY IMPLICATIONS

‘As noted in the Analysis/Options section of this report, the proposed amendment to
Zoning By-law 050-2014 for the site located east of 260 King St. W. is consistent with
the PPS and with the relevant policies ofthe City’s Official Plan,

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS

All costs associated with the use of the property to include a Refreshment Vehicle are
the responsibilty of the owner/applicants. The City of Brockville does not currently
charge a licensing fee for Refreshment Vehicle.

2016-15142 Page age 20 of 116
Proposed Amendment To Zoning By-Law 050-2014

King St. W. at Clarissa St, City of Brockville.

‘Owner: MeKerchor Bros. (Brockvll) Ltd

‘Agent: Michael Brewer

File: 14-017 ssn

‘The Refreshment Vehicle is considered a chattel, thus the subject property is assessed
by MPAC as vacant land, with property taxes payable accordingly.

CONCLUSION

Following review of the PPS, the Offical Plan, Zoning By-law 050-2014, as well as
submissions received respecting the request for Zoning By-law Amendment, it is
reasonable to impose a site specific zone for a temporary period on the subject property
to provide a mix of culinary options along King Street and within the Downtown Core.

Accordingly, an amendment to City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014 is
recommended whereby the subject land would be rezoned from MD ~ Mixed Use
Downtown Zone to T-MD-1 Mixed Use Downtown Special Exception Zone. This is
reflected in the recommendation at the beginning of this report.

i Panos Mees PEE heh ‘McGinnis MCIP, RPP, DipLMM

Director of Planning ¢ Planner It

B, Casselman
City Manager

SCHEDULE “A” TO REPORT 2016-151-12

Page 21 of 116


Page 22 of 116

SCHEDULE “B” TO REPORT 2016-151-12


Page 23 of 116


Page 24 of 116

SCHEDULE “C” TO REPORT 2016-151-12

a Public Meeting
BROCKVILLE Economic Development &
TOF ee ANS Planning Committee
GTR Tuesday, November 01, 2016, 6:00 pm

City Hall, Council Chambers

‘Committee Members:
Councillor P. Dery, Chair
Councillor M. Kalivas
Councillor D. LeSueur

Mayor D. Henderson, Ex-Officio

Regrets:
Councillor L. Bursey

Staff:
Mr. B, Casselman, City Manager

Ms. S. MacDonald, City Clerk (Recording Secretary)
Mr. A. McGinnis, Planner II

Ms. M. Pascoe Merkley, Director of Planning

The Chair called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
ITEM

1. 2016-140-11
Proposed Amendment to Zoning By-law 050-2014
North West Corner King St. W. and Clarissa St., City of Brockville,
‘Owner: McKercher Holdings Limited
Agent: Michael Brewer

Moved by: Councillor Kalivas
THAT Report 2016-140-11 be received as information and that a report on
this matter be prepared by staff for consideration of the Economic
Development Planning Committee at a future meeting

CARRIED

/, Chair, introduced the public meeting and read from the
prepared required comments.

Page 1 of 2

Page 25 of 116

Economic Development and Planning Committee Public Meeting Minutes
Tuesday, November 01, 2016

Mr. McGinnis announced that notice of the Public Meeting was advertised in
the Brockville Recorder and Times Newspaper on October 6, 2016 and was,
Circulated to property owners within 120.0 metres (400.0 feet) of the
subject property. In addition, signs were posted on the subject property
advising that the lands are the subject of an Application for Amendment to
the City of Brockville Zoning By-law 050-2014,

Councillor Deery, Chair, asked that any person wanting further notice of the
passage of the proposed amendment should give their full name, address
and postal code to the Secretary prior to leaving the meeting.

Councillor Dery reviewed the procedures for the Public Meeting.

Mr. McGinnis provided an overview of the proposed zoning amendment.

Mr. Steve Brewer representing the Applicant was in attendance and
requested that the approval of the requested temporary zone. There was
discussion regarding signage, landscaping with planters, and screening of
waste receptacles. This staff report will address these issues.

No persons requested notice.

The meeting adjourned at 6:11 pm.

Page 2 of 2

Page 26 of 116

SCHEDULE “D” TO REPORT 2016-151-12

Lorraine Bagnell

From:
Sent: ‘October 13, 2016 846 AM

To Lorraine Bagnall

Subject: File No: D14-O17-King Street West
Greetings,

{have no objection ta the special exception zoning to permit refreshment vehicle as a temporary use on the subject
lands provided that the refreshment vehicle owner remove the extremely unattractive approximately x6 sign located
rear the sidewalk fronting King Street West (close tothe Leon sign

‘This refreshment vehicle has a new name and, | assume, I new owner since the ast special exception zoning was
requested. The previous owner dd not have such a large, unattractive sign cosa tothe sidewalk on King Street. do not
‘object to signage located on or within a few feet ofthe actual refreshment vehicle itself-which is acated wel ack In
‘the parking lot, close tothe comer of George Street and Clarissa Street. this coneltion cannot be met, then object to
the renewal ofthe special exception zoning

Sincerely,

—
—a_
—

Page 27 of 116

26Novembor2016

REPORT TO THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING COMMITTEE -
08 DECEMBER 2016

2016-12-12
RENEWAL OF POUND CONTRACT M, PASCOE MERKLEY

DIRECTOR OF PLANNING.
RECOMMENDATION:

THAT the Corporation of the City of Brockville enters into a two year contract with Sally Bell
operating as “MeowTown Luxury Resort for Cats" at 840 Stewart Boulevard to continue the
relationship as Pound Keeper for the City.

PURPOSE:

‘To provide a recommendation to Council on continuance of a contractual arrangement with
Sally Bell for operation of a Pound on behalf of the City of Brockville.

ORIGIN AND BACKGROUND:

By-law 7-82, as amended, is a By-law respecting Animal Control within the Corporation of
the City of Brockville. Said by-law identifies the need for the City to have a designated
Pound where animals running at large can be impounded, and establishes regulations
related thereto.

Sally Bell has operated "Sally's Bed and Biscuit’ and "MeowTown Luxury Resort for Cats”
at 840 Stewart Bivd. for a number of years, and has acted as Pound Keeper to the City of :
Brockville since 2006.

In December of 2014, the City entered into a two year renewal of the contract with “Sally's .
Bed and Biscuit. This contract will expire on 16 December 2016, and thus, itis appropriate .
to consider a contract extension for this service.

ANALYSIS:

By agreement, the designated Pound Keeper is to operate a Pound under conditions
‘consistent with the Animals for Research Act, RSO 1990, c.A. 22, as amended and in
‘accordance with the City’s Animal Control By-law. This includes ensuring that impounded
‘animals are kept clean, well-cared for and fed during the time of confinement, and that |
‘appropriate records are kept, among other things.

By-law Enforcement Officers of the City and Brockville Police Service have the right to take
animals to the Pound on an as required basis, Physical changes at the Pound a few years |


Page 28 of 116

2016-15242 Page2
RENEWAL OF POUND CONTRACT

‘ago allow for 24/7 access by officers.
Currently, public access to the Pound for purposes of claiming impounded animals is
established in the contract, with public access hours specified on six (6) of seven (7) days
of the week, with the provision for public access on Wednesdays by appointment only. No
change is deemed to be necessary with respect to access.

All other terms and conditions of the proposed contract remain unchanged, with the
‘Agreement being recommended for a two (2) year period from the date of its execution,
providing for termination by either party by giving writen notice at least 60 days in advance.

During the term of this contract, staff will be monitoring the net effect on pound usage due
to sales of dog tags by our new online service provider DocuPet Inc.

A copy of the proposed Agreement with Sally Bell is attached hereto as Schedule “A”,
POLICY IMPLICATIONS:

Continuance of a contractual arrangement for Pound services is consistent with the
findings under the Service Delivery Review of the City’s Animal Control function,

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS:

‘The fees payable to the Pound Keeper while under contract with the City for the past four
(4) years have been $1400.00 monthly plus HST. For the next two (2) year period, the
Pound Keeper is seeking an additional $100 monthly to cover increased insurance costs,
thus increasing the monthly rate to $1500.00 plus HST for this service. The proposed 2017
Animal Control budget, once approved, would contain sufficient funds to cover this
contractual obligation for 2017, and rates for 2018 would remain constant.

CONCLUSION:

It is appropriate for the City to enter into a new two (2) year contract with Sally Bell
operating as “MeowTown Luxury Resort for Cats" for pound keeping services.

Ditka Data

iM Pascoe Merkley D.Dick, Pa, cm
irector of Planning Director of Corporate Services
B. Casselman

City Manager

Page 29 of 116

SCHEDULE “A” TO REPORT 2016-152-12

THIS AGREEMENT made this day of, AD, 2018

BETWEEN:
‘Sally Bel ofa MeowTown Luxury Resor for Cats,
at 840 Stewart Boulevard
in the City of Brockville, in the County of Leeds,
Hereinatter referred to as "MeowTown”

Of the first part

And

‘The Corporation ofthe City of Brockville
Hereinafter called the "Corporation"
‘Of the second part

WHEREAS the Corporation has deemed it expedient fo establish a Pound; and

WHEREAS the said MeowTown has agreed to act as Pound Keeper on the following
terms and conditions:

NOW WITNESSETH THAT in consideration of the mutual covenants herein contained,
the Parties hereto hereby agree as folows:

,
,
28) Moow/Town does hereby covenant and agree that shall provide such premises as are |

required by the Corporation for impounding of dogs and cats; located at 840 Stewart
Bivd., Brockville, Ontario.

'b) MeowTown shall operate the Pound under the terms and conditions set forth in the
Animals for Research Act, R.S.0. 1990, ¢.A. 22, a8 amended, and in accordance with
the City of Brockville’s Animal Control By-law, including the keeping of records,
collecting licence fees and other monies. The facilty will include an indoor and outdoor
run area as well as holding cages.

©) Such pound facilty will be served by MeowTown who will ensure that all animals
impounded will be kept clean, well-cared for and fed during the time of confinement,

<4) MeowTown shall keep records of all animals impounded and their disposition which shall
be submitted to the Corporation atthe end of each month,

‘e) MeowTown shall permit public access to the Pound for the purpose of claiming
Jmpounded animals Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday from 7:00 am to 9:00 am |
‘and 2:00 pm to 5:00 pm, Saturday 7:00 am to 9:00 am and Sunday 8:00 am to 6:00 am. |
‘Wednesday opening for public access shall be by appointment only. The Corporation |
Which includes the Brockville Police Service reserves the right to take animals to the |
Pound as required. |

Page 30 of 116

Sally's Bed and Biscuit
‘Agreement for Pound Services Page 2

All animals impounded shall be kept for a minimum of five (5) days, holidays excluded.
‘The Corporation shall attempt to contact the owner of any animal as quickly as possible.
If the Corporation is required by law to quarantine an animal for a specified period, the
Corporation wil pay the additional boarding fees for the quarantine period unless the
‘owner redeems the animal, in which case the owner shall be responsible for additional
boarding fees

9) Any animal not claimed by the owner shall become the property of the pound and may
bbe adopted, or disposed of according to the Ministry of Agriculture Foods and Rural
‘fairs Regulations governing Pounds and Animal Control Facities.

h) MeowTown agrees that any dogs impounded that do not have a current year dog tag
‘shall not be released to the owner or other person until a proper tag is purchased. The
Corporation shall provide to MeowTown a current schedule of fees. It shall be the .
responsibilly of MeowTown to sell the tags (online) and remit all monies and records of
the tags sold, by the 15” of each month

|) The Corporation shall be responsible for the cost of all advertising required to be done in
pursuance of the By-Law of the Corporation respecting the maintaining of a Pound,

J) The Corporation shall be responsible for the cost of any charges made by any
veterinarian called by MeowTown to examine any dog and cat or carcass in the Pound,

k) The Contractor agrees to provide public relation services during regular hours and
provide the public with information relating to animal control

2. Fes

{) The Corporation shall pay to Sally’s the sum of One Thousand Five Hundred dollars
($1,500.00) per month (plus applicable taxes) during the term of this Agreement. This
‘amount shall be compensation in full forall services provided for the operation of the
Pound, including but not limited to suppiying all heat, electric power, such taxes as shall
bbe levied and the costs of food consumed by impounded dogs and cats

'b) THAT the Corporation agrees that any money collected by the Pound Keeper for the
‘board shall belong to the Pound Keeper. The Corporation will not be responsible for any
‘costs for animals claimed by their owner or if the animal is adopted.

3 Liability and Insurance

) The Corporation shall indemnify and save harmless MeowTown from any loss suffered
by reason ofthe destruction or other disposition of any dog or cat while it is being held in
the Pound, saving and excepting the unlawful destruction or disposition of any dog or
cat.

) The Contractor shall maintain and pay for Comprehensive General Llablity Insurance,
including coverage for all operations as pound keeper. This insurance coverage shall be
‘subject to limits of not less than two (2) milion dollars ($2,000,000) inelusive per
‘occurrence for third party Bodily Injury and Property Damage,

Page 31 of 116

Sally's Bed and Biscuit
‘Agreement for Pound Services Page 3

©) A certificate of such insurance shall be filed with the Corporation upon signing of the
Contract, and provided annually thereafter on the anniversary date ofthis Agreement.

4) MeowTown agrees to fulfil all of its obligations in compliance with the Occupational
Health and Safety Act and further agrees to take responsiblity for any health and safety
violation that may occur. Furthermore, ifthe municipalty (or any of its council members
or employees) shall be made a party to any charge under the Occupational Health and
Safety Act in relation to any violation of the said Act arising out of the operations of the
Pound by MeowTown, MeowTown shall indemnify and save harmless the Corporation
from any and all charges, fines, penalties and costs that may be Incurred or pald by the
Corporation,

4, Termination

18) This agreement shall be in effect for a period of two (2) years from the date of execution
of this agreement unless terminated earlier. Either party may terminate this agreement
by giving written notice to the other party by registered mail at least 60 days before the
intended date of termination

This agreement cannot be assigned without the written consent of the other party and shall
tenure to the benefit of both partes, their executors, heirs and assigns. )

IN WITNESS WHEREOF The Corporation of the City of Brockville has hereunto affixed its
Corporate Seal as attested by the hands of the proper officers in that behalf and the
Party of the First Part has set her hand, .

The Corporation of the City of Brockville Sally Bell o/a MeowTown Luxury
Resort for Cats,

Mayor Sally Bell

City Clerk

Page 32 of 116

28 November 2016
REPORT TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING COMMITTEE - 06
DECEMBER 2016

2016-153-12

‘ACCEPTANCE OF TRANSFER OF LAND M, PASCOE MERKLEY
FOR BROCK TRAIL, CANCELLATION OF DIRECTOR OF PLANNING
FITZSIMONS DRIVE SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION J. FAURSCHOU
AND AMENDMENT TO SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT PLANNER |

BRIDLEWOOD SUBDIVISION, PLAN 375
OWNER: 653973 ONTARIO LIMITED
FILE: 267-10

RECOMMENDATION:

1. THAT the City accepts the transfer, at no cost to the City, of a 1.0 ha parcel of
land east of Bridlewood Drive from 653973 Ontario Limited required by the City
for purposes of the Brock Trail extension, in exchange for a release from the
obligation in the Bridlewood Subdivision Agreement to construct a sidewalk on
the north side of Fitzsimmons Drive from Montrose Street westerly to the west
edge of Plan 375.

2. THAT the Subdivision Agreement between Dodge and Dodge Corporation
Limited and the Corporation of the City of Brockville under By-law 234-81, as
amended, be further amended to address deletion of a portion of the sidewalk on
the north ‘side of Fitzsimmons Drive from Montrose Street westerly to the west
‘edge of Plan 375 and conveyance of land for the Brock Trail extension,

PURPOSE:

‘The purpose of this report is to provide background and suppor for a proposed transfer
of lands in lieu of construction of a portion of the Fitzsimmons Drive sidewalk located on
the north side of Fitzsimmons Drive, west of Montrose Street to the west edge of Plan
375, and to authorize a corresponding amendment to the Subdivision Agreement.

ORIGIN:

A request from the developer of Bridlewood Subdivision, 653973 Ontario Limited
represented by Josip Malovic, and a petition from various residents on or near
Fitzsimmons Drive have been received, requesting that the requirement for construction
of a sidewalk on the north side of Fitzsimmons Drive, west of Montrose Street be
eliminated.

‘Additionally it has been determined by the Brock Trail Committee that landlocked lands
‘owned by 653973 Ontario Limited are required to facilitate a link between Bridlewood
Subdivision and the segment ofthe Brock Trail being built north of Laurier Biv

Page 33 of 116

2016-489.42 Page 2
[ACCEPTANCE OF TRANSFER OF LAND

FOR BROCK TRAIL, CANCELLATION OF

FITZSIMONS DR. SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND

[AMENDMENT TO SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT

‘BRIDLEWOOD SUBDIVISION, PLAN 375

‘OWNER! 659973 ONTARIO LIRITED

FILE! 267-0

ANALYSIS:

Bridlewood Subdivision, Registered Plan 375, was created in 1981 with terms and
‘conditions for development being specified the Subdivision Agreement between Dodge
‘and Dodge Corporation Limited and the Corporation of the City of Brockville under By-
law 234-81. This Plan of Subdivision and associated Subdivision Agreement has been
the subject of various amendments throughout the years which have addressed the on-
going development of various phases of the subdivision and change of ownership from
Dodge and Dodge Corporation Limited to 653973 Ontario Ltd. Amongst many other
requirements, the developer's responsibilty to construct sidewalks in various locations
throughout Bridlewood Subdivision is specified

‘Schedule “B", Clause 4 of the Subdivision Agreement addresses sidewalk requirements
within the subdivision. Specifically, it states that:

“Concrete sidewalks 1.5 metres in width shall be constructed on both sides of
Bridlewood Drive, Aspen Drive, Crestwood Drive, Fitzsimmons Drive, Shearer
Drive and Dobbie Street within the limits of the Plan.”

‘There are currently sidewalks constructed on Fitzsimmons Drive as follows:

‘+ the entire length of the south side of Fitzsimmons Drive from Bridlewood Drive to
the last house on the west end of Fitzsimmons Drive;

‘+ the north side of Fitzsimmons Drive from Bridlewood Drive west to Montrose
Street

Al existing sidewalks constructed within Bridlewood Subdivision are illustrated in
‘Schedule “A” to this report

On 11 February 2014, the Planning Department received a petition from fieen (15)
residents of the Fitzsimmons Drive area requesting that the required sidewalk planned
for the north side of Fitzsimmons Drive west of Montrose Street be deleted. The
signatories to the petition represent ownersioccupants of twelve (12) dwellings on
Fitzsimmons Drive and one (1) on Kingswood Street, and all but two (2) of the fifteen
(15) would have the yet-to-be built sidewalk located in front of their property. The
pelition reads as follows:

‘We the undersigned property owners in Bridlewood Subdivision, north side of
Fitzsimmons Drive, in the City of Brockville, respectully petition the construction
of a sidewalk on the north side of Fitzsimmons drive. We fee! that the existing
sidewalk on the south side of Fitzsimmons Drive already addresses the need
for a safe and easily accessible walking route, and that an additional sidewalk

Page 34 of 116

2016-189-42 Pages
‘ACCEPTANCE OF TRANSFER OF LAND

FOR BROCK TRAIL, CANCELLATION OF

FITZSIMONS DR. SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND

[AMENDMENT TO SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT

BRIDLEWOOD SUBDIVISION, PLAN 375.

‘OWNER: 653973 ONTARIO LiMITED

FE! 267-10

(on the north side of Fitzsimmons Drive would unnecessarily decrease driveway
and front yard size.”

In the intervening period, there has been on-going dialogue in an attempt to resolve the
issue. In light of the fact that there is a landlocked parcel owned by 653973 Ontario
Limited which has been deemed by the Brock Trail Committee to be needed for
purposes of a connection from the future trail location to Aspen Drive, the developer
has offered to transfer said parcel in exchange for relief from the obligation to construct
the Fitzsimmons sidewalk.

Attached as Schedule “B” is a sketch of the parcel in question. Schedule “C” is the
design for the proposed segment of the Brock Trail where these lands would be utilized,
while Schedule “D” depicts the trail from Parkedale Ave. to Centennial Road.

Staff has reviewed and endorsed the acceptance of the transfer of said parcel in
‘exchange for relief from the obligation to construct the Fitzsimmons sidewalk.

POLICY IMPLICATIONS:

‘The Official Plan states that the City may acquire land to implement any element of the
Official Plan in accordance with the Municipal Act, the Planning Act, or any other Act.

Of significant priority throughout the Official Plan is the extension and enhancement of
the Brock Trail

FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS:
The cost to construct the sidewalk on the north side of Fitzsimmons is estimated to be

{$65,000.00 - $70,000.00 in current dollars. This cost would fall to the taxpayers should
the sidewalk be deemed necessary in the future.

‘There is no market valuation of the parcel of land under consideration. It is landlocked,
zoned OS-Open Space and EP-Environmental Protection, and thus would have litle to
no value as development lands. It is also a liability to the current Owner who is
‘otherwise responsible for its maintenance. It may, however, be considered invaluable
to the City as a necessary piece of the future Brock Trail

Al costs associated with the conveyance of said lands are to be the responsibilty of the
developer, 653973 Ontario Ltd. as represented by Mr. Josip Malovic.

Page 35 of 116

2016.169-12 Pages
ACCEPTANCE OF TRANSFER OF LAND

FOR BROCK TRAIL, CANCELLATION OF

FITZSIMONS DR. SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND

‘AMENDMENT TO SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT

BRIDLEWOOD SUBDIVISION, PLAN 375,

‘OWNER: 653973 ONTARIO LIMITED

FILE: 287-10

CONCLUSION:

Based on the foregoing, it is recommended that the transfer of land from 653973
Ontario Limited in exchange for the deletion of construction of the Fitzsimmons
sidewalk planned for the north side of Fitzsimmons Drive west of Montrose Street to the
‘west edge of Plan 375 be accepted, and that the Subdivision Agreement be amended
accordingly to address the changes.

‘The necessary by-laws and amendment to the Subdivision Agreement to rationalize the
changes to sidewalk requirements will be prepared for enactment by City Council

Avs Dila ly a

M Pascoe Merkley, MCIP, RPP7 B. Casselman
Director of Planning City Manager

J. Faurschou, MCIP, RPP
Planner |


Page 36 of 116
SCHEDULE “A” TO REPORT 2016-153-12

Location of Existing Sidewalks in Bridlewood Subdivision, Plan 375: November 2016



Page 38 of 116

SCHEDULE “C” TO REPORT 2016-153-12


; @ Brock Trail

Now and the Future


Page 40 of 116

28 November 2016
REPORT TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING COMMITTEE — 06
DECEMBER 2016

2016-154-12
REQUEST FOR ACCEPTANCE AND RELEASE M. PASCOE MERKLEY
PHASES 1 TO 4, PLAN 375 DIRECTOR OF PLANNING
BRIDLEWOOD SUBDIVISION J. FAURSCHOU
CITY OF BROCKVILLE PLANNER |
OWNER: 653973 ONTARIO LIMITED

FILE: 267-10

RECOMMENDATION:

THAT Council authorizes the enactment of a by-law for final acceptance of the work
and infrastructure within Phases 1 through 4 inclusive of Bridlewood Subdivision and to
discharge obligations under the Subdivision Agreement, as amended, between Dodge
and Dodge Corporation Limited and the Corporation of the City of Brockville, as it
applies to Phases 1 through 4, save and except Clauses 16(a), 16(b) and 16(c),

PURPOSE:

‘The purpose of this report is to make recommendations on a request for final
acceptance of the work in Phases 1 through 4 of Bridlewood Subdivision, Registered
Plan 375, and for discharge various obligations under the operative ‘Subdivision
Agreement, as amended.

ORIGIN:

The developer, 653973 Ontario Limited, represented by Mr. Josip Malovic, has
requested that the City accept the work (water and sewers, roadways, sidewalks and
other infrastructure) built or installed on or under the road allowances and in parks in
Phases 1 through 4 of Bridlewood Subdivision, and release Phases 1 through 4,
inclusive, Plan 375, from terms and conditions of the Subdivision Agreement applicable
to Bridlewood Subdivision. The location, layout and phasing of the subject lands is
indicated on Schedule “A” to this report.

ANALYSIS:

The underlying registered pian of subdivision (Plan 375) for the lands in question was
created in 1981, and is subject to a Subdivision Agreement between Dodge and Dodge
Corporation Limited and the Corporation of the City of Brockville, authorized by By-law
234-81. This Agreement has been the subject of various amendments through the

Page 41

Page2
2016-154-12
REQUEST FOR ACCEPTANCE AND RELEASE
PHASES 1 TO 4 OF BRIDLEWOOD SUBDIVISION
REGISTERED PLAN 375
‘OWNER: 653973 ONTARIO LIMITED
FILE: 267-10

years which have addressed the on-going development of various phases of the
subdivision and the change of ownership from Dodge and Dodge Corporation Limited
to 653973 Ontario Ltd,

Development within Bridlewood Subdivision is subject to terms and conditions set out
under the following Agreement, as amended:

‘Agreement Type: Subdivision Agreement
Between: Dodge and Dodge Corporation Limited and The
Corporation of the City of Brockville

Authorized By By-law 234-81 on 15 December 1981
Registered As: Instrument Number 131414 on 18 June 1982
Amendment:
Between: 1653973 Ontario Limited and The Corporation of the City
of Brockville
‘Authorized By: By-law 139-99 on 22 June 1903
Registered As: Instrument Number 245138 on 07 October 1993
Amendment:
Botwoo! 853973 Ontario Limited and The Corporation of the City
of Brockville
Authorized Or 01 August 2000
Registered As: Instrument Number 308376 on 15 December 2000

‘The subdivision is being developed in various phases. Schedule “A” to this report
identifies the phasing. The phases which are the subject of this request are described
‘as Phase 1 through 4, inclusive, and are described as follows:

Phase Description.
Phase 1° [Lots 22-48, incusive, Lots 50-58, inclusive, Lots 107-103, incusive, Lote 254-288,

inclusive, Block D and Various lots created by consent on the east side of
Bridlewood Drive south of Aspen Drive

Phase Z| Lote 94-100, ince, Lots 704-225 Incisive, es 226-296, MU, Lots 250
283, ncushve |

Phase 3: | Lots 151-154, inclusive, Lots 175-180, inclusive, Lots 186-197, inclusive, Lots 227-
22, nlsive

Phase 4: | Lots 15-27, inclusive, Lots 58-65, inclusive, Lots 104-112, inclsive, and Block

of tte

Page 42 of 116

Page 3
2016-154-12

REQUEST FOR ACCEPTANCE AND RELEASE

PHASES 1 TO 4 OF BRIDLEWOOD SUBDIVISION

REGISTERED PLAN 375

‘OWNER: 653973 ONTARIO LIMITED.

FILE: 267.10

Final acceptance requires the Owner to meet all conditions as set out under the above-
noted Subdivision Agreement, as amended. Conditions set out under the Subdivision
Agreement have been confirmed as having been met to the satisfaction of the City

Clauses 16(a), 16(b) and 16(c), inclusive, of the Subdivision Agreement refer to various
grading-telated clauses to ensure that all lots and dwellings maintain conformity with
the approved grading and drainage plan. As such, it is appropriate that they remain in
effect despite release of other obligations and elements.

POLICY IMPLICATIONS:

‘There are no policy implications associated with the subject request. The request is a
housekeeping issue related to an approved Subdivision Agreement which contains
direction on conditions to be met prior to considering acceptance of the work and
infrastructure, release of the Subdivision Agreement, and conditions which must remain
in effect.

FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS:

Al costs associated with release of the Subdivision Agreement as it pertains to lands
within Phases 1 through 4 of Bridlewood Subdivision, Registered Plan 375 are the
responsibilty of the developer.

‘There are two more active construction phases within Bridlewood Subdivision (Phase 5
- Extension of Fitzsimmons Dr. and Phase 6 - Extension of Aspen Drive., including
‘McClure Crescent) which are not, at this time, under consideration for acceptance and
release. There are no current estimates of the cost to complete all obligations
associated with Phases § and 6.

CONCLUSION:

‘As 653973 Ontario Ltd. has fulfilled its obligations as it relates to Phases 1 through 4 of
Bridlewood Subdivision, it is appropriate for Council to support the request for final
acceptance of the work and to discharge obligations under the operative subdivision
agreement, as amended, respecting Phase 1 through 4, save and except Clauses
16(a), 16(b) and 16(c), inclusive.

‘The necessary by-law to accept the work and release the first four (4) phases of
Bridlewood Subdivision from the terms and conditions of the Subdivision Agreement, as

Page 43 of 116

Page
2016-15442

REQUEST FOR ACCEPTANCE AND RELEASE

PHASES 1 TO 4 OF BRIDLEWOOD SUBDIVISION

REGISTERED PLAN 375

(OWNER: 653973 ONTARIO LIMITED

FILE: 267-10

amended, save and except Clauses 16(a), 16(b) and 16(c) inclusive, has been
prepared

A kb oD odebs
1 Pascoe Merkley, MCIP, REP i Cantoknan

J. Faurschou, MCIP, RPP
Planner |

SCHEDULE “A” TO REPORT 2016-154-12

6 44 of 116

Plan 376, Bridlewood Subdivision, Approximate Phasing

Page 45 of 116

Report to Finance, Administration & Operations Committee
December 5, 2016

2016-155-12 D. Dick, CPA, CA

Renewal of Agreement with the Director of Corporate Services

Kingston & Region Divn.

19 Enforcement L. Ferguson, CPA, CGA
Manager of Finance

S. Faber
Revenue Supervisor

R.Allen
Revenue Officer

RECOMMENDATION

‘THAT Council for the Corporation of the Ci of Brockville accept the agreement with the
Commissionaires. Inc. Kingston and Region Division for the provision of parking
enforcement services forthe period of February 1, 2017 to January 31, 2018,

ORIGIN
‘The current contract with the Commissionaires expires on January 31, 2017.
ANALYSIS.

‘The Commissionaires have been providing parking enforcement services to the City of
Brockville since February 2004. Parking enforcement is provided Monday to Friday
(mostly) in the downtown area, including the five municipal parking lots. Maintenance
and repair is also undertaken for the five pay and display parking lot machines and
approximately 170 parking meters. In additional to be basic service, the
Commissionaires also provide Saturday enforcement and additional service for the
Brockville Arts Centre when large shows are scheduled under the same contract
provisions.

‘The contract with the Commissionaires has worked very well since 2004 and the current
‘compliment of officers works very well with City staff

In 2011, proposals for service were compared between two providers. Although a
‘change in provider would have resulted in savings of less than $2,000, staff was not in
favour of the change as the less expensive provider did not have on-street parking
‘enforcement experience. The amount of staff time that would have been required to
switch to a new service provider (trainingltime spent clarifying by-laws, policies and
procedures to new personnel) would have negated any contract savings.

Page 46 of 116

2016-155-12
Renewal Of Agreement With The Commissionaires Inc.
Kingston & Region Division For Parking Enforcement Page 2

‘The Commissionares are offering @ one year extension tothe current agreement with a
41% increase to the biling rates. Staff is recommending the renewal of the agreement
with the Commissionaies be for a one (1) year term, from February 1, 2017 to January
31, 2018. The contract is for the provision of two (2) officers and the dedicated use of a
vehicle. The vehicle is used for meter collects, repairs and patrols in areas outside of
the downtown core.

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS.
‘The contract costs of $75,000 have been included in the 2017 operating budget.

Funding of this contract is through the Parking operating account 01-6-270115-3010.

R ws

Revenue Officer

Maire Ttho
5. Faber
Revenue Supervisor

f i
Je i<O—~
L Ferguson, CPA, CGA
Manager of Finance

D. Dick, CPA,CA
Director of Corporate Services

B. Casselman
City Manager

Page 47 of 116

November 29, 2016
REPORT TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING - TUESDAY DECEMBER 6, 2016

2016-156-12 DAVID C. PAUL
IMMIGRATION ATTRACTION REPORT DIRECTOR OF ECONOMIC

DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM
RECOMMENDATION

‘THAT the Economic Development and Planning committee recsive the Immigration
‘Attraction Report and direct the Economic Development Office to provide recommendations
for further consideration by EDP/Council on the execution of the actions noted therein; and
further,

‘THAT the subject report include related budget and timing implications to achieve
deliverables of the report.

PURPOSE
To establish programming for immigration attraction and related investment.
BACKGROUND

‘+ The Economic Development Office work plan has included immigration and cultural
diversity as a key pillar in their program delivery for over 6 years. The introduction of
the immigration file was initiated based on the recommendations of the City’s
‘approved 2009 Corporate Plan and two further approved economic development
strategies completed in both 2010 and the refresh completed in 2015.

‘+ The City has been successful in securing federal and provincial grant funding totaling
{$700,000 (+) over this period to maintain the immigration focus with programming
related to both immigration welcoming, settlement and recently, immigration
investment attraction

‘+ Immigration is a policy directive of both the Ontario and Federal governments being a
strategic solution to changing demographic shifts in population. This is a particular
{issue with more rural areas and particularly in Eastern Ontario.

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATION

To be identified in a future report to Committee/Council.

CONCLUSION

Recommendations on the most efficient process and programming for immigration attraction
to be identified in future report and provide a framework towards achieving continued shifts
in our demographic profile and hopefully realize economic benefits and achieving enhanced
labour adjustment targets,


2016-156-12
IMMIGRATION ATTRACTION REPORT

Page 48 of 116

Page 2

ZOT

Director’of Economic Development

_ ha

Casselman
City Manager

D. Dick, CA; CPA
Director of Corporate Services


WHERE THE WORLD

CAN RESIDE

A TOOLKIT FOR ATTRACTING
IMMIGRANT ENTREPRENEURS,
TO SMALL CITY CANADA

Page 49 of 116

D>
L Ontario

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Purpose @

Background §

Matassigy 6

Immiatin to rach Nata
Using Tas Toot 9

vrachingReeonentions 10

sul of the Manip inusin Assessment 12
Deng & Enact nsion 12

‘vera Poplin Staley, Regonsing,

sd Rejenstzation 15,

Tepte Seay Migration Alation Plan 17

Leal nga Enreprentr Oateames 18
Characters of Paticpete 18

Leal gant Entegra Recomenendins 20,
GRAPH: Hoel Popultin

Embassy Outcomes 30

Page 50 of 116

Leds Gree mira Parerip
MenberOganatons

Projet Lage Model

Leal gan Enteprentes

Leds Greil migation Parnes LP)
Dirty Day 2016 Poser

Proposal Rept rhe iy of Bec e n the
‘Conaian Conlin of Muncpates Agi! Racism

ig the Canta Coston of Munition
‘esata and Discriniatin Repetto Counc

1b Abeta or Use by he iy of Schl:

Leds ree mization Parnerhips
oc Cultural Buse Abeer Progam

Partipnts Ober tan
Leal nga Eneprentes

List of Partin Participant Demogacics

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Rural communities in Ontario, and many across Canada, find themselves in a complicated
‘situation when it comes to population growth, and the concomitant effects of such growth

(or stagnation), on economic development. The City of Brockville is no exception. With
population that has been incrementally decreasing or staying elatvely neural since

2006, Brockville ins itself among the many municipalities across Ontario (and Canad)

‘that sccks to create innovative ways of atracting residents and investment, Both meant
toensure the long-term viability of che City In February 2016, the City of Brockville’:
Economic Development Department in collaboration with the Leeds & Grenville Immigration
Partnership (LI) received funding from the Ministry of Citizenship and Immigration (MCI)

1 investigate innovative ways to atract immigrant entrepreneurs (and more peripherally,
foreign direct investment to Brockville specifically, and to rural communiies/mal cities
‘more generally. This tolkit is the result of nine months of research, analysis, consultation,
And outreach into the central question of how the City of Brockville’ capaciy an be further
‘developed to attract and retain immigean entrepreneurs tothe ares. This toolkit specifically
designed to take the foundation laid bythe ity of Brockville andthe umbrella organizations
‘that make up the Leeds & Grenville Immigration Partnership, and move i forward into

action by assessing the situation Brockville currenty finds itself in vis-a-vis welcoming new
‘immigrant entrepreneurs, helping them to get established, and providing an environment that,
allows them ro remain and flourish as pat of Brockvill’s community and economy.

‘While there are many recommendations! that inform this took, there ae wo main
‘overatching targets that teal ofthe succeeding recommendations together:

‘TARGET ONE; INCLUSION & DIVERSITY
Becoming 2 more inclusive community that celebrates dversity

‘TARGET TWO: REGIONALIZING
Becoming a community where secondary migrants look to settle

“These targets ate the culmination ofthe integrated data gathered throughout this research
study from primarily local immigrant entrepreneurs and a review of relevant bes practices
‘toolkits on immigration attraction and retention, as wells consultations with regional
‘economic development departments, embassy ofials and ethnic busines associations
‘Concrete recommendations are made throughout this document that are intended o build
the City of Brockvill’s capacity to begin attracting immigrant entrepreneurs immediatly.
Brockville can begin attraction immediately via two strategic moves: through the hiing of
(Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer and through a national and global attraction campaign
‘that targets specific enepreneurs from relevant source countries.

Utimatey, Brockville is privileged to be home ro many local immigrant entrepreneurs whose
‘experiences imbue cis tolkie with the necessary insights to propel the City forward inthis
Important initiative. Brockville’ local immigrant entrepreneurs create opportunities whee
‘none sem to exist and who work hard to make their new lives and homes in Canada the
success that they hoped it would be upon immigrating. The insights ofthe local immigrant
entrepreneurs and other contributors to this project demonstrate the extent to which the
City of Brockville can be the next epicenter of immigrant entrepreneur attraction theough

an investment of time, resourceshuman and financial, and effort into attraction asa main
“river of economie development.

Page 51 of 116

‘The pepe of hs oot

1 Tope
‘ay ety gn
turer of vel incing
lea regina, ruin,
feral and gal

2 Tou the capsciy of
(angattereeant
the counterparts nie
eng entegreneis
the Cyan he ep

‘rch can begin
te aatege moves taugh
‘rough anata alba
stration campag tat

tages spect entereneurs

ies ot migration
stout bet prac: a ba

Page 52 of 116

PART 1 INTRODUCTION

Introducing the Toolkit

fs the capacity of
‘every city in the world to provide a better weleome and contribute to immigrant succes by
‘teating condivions for investment, attachment and belonging” (Cities of Migration, 2012:

45). Further, Cities of Migration posts cha municipal governments are frst responders when
‘comes to immigrant settlement and integration —"ae the major political body within the
local community, they direct policy, deliver essential services and are uniquely positioned 10
act nimbly and implement iniaives that lead to quick and meaningful changes. Additionally,
‘they have the unique capacity to influence public opinion and bring diverse interests together
forthe common good” (ibid). This toolkit outlines the best practices tha the Cty of
Brockville can employ to amplify its ability to attract, welcome, include, and retain immigrant
entrepreneurs to Brockville from all corners ofthe world

In February 2016, the City of Brockvill’s Economic Development Department in collaboration
‘with the Leeds & Grenville Immigration Partnership (LIP) received funding from the Ministry
‘of Citizenship and Immigration (MCI) to investigate innovative ways to atract immigrant
entrepreneurs (and moce peripherally, foreign direct investment) to Brockville specifically,

land to rural communities/smallckes more genealy. This took sthe result of nine months
cof research, analysis, consultation, and outreach into the central question of how the City of
Brockville’ capacity can be further developed to attract and retain immigrant entrepreneurs
tothe ares, This toolkit is specially designed to take the foundation lid by the City of
Brockville and che umbrella organizations (fora complet list ofthese organizations see
‘Appendix B) that make up the Leeds & Grenville Immigration Partnership, and move it
forward into action by assessing the situation Brockville currently finds itself in vis-i-vis
‘welcoming new immigrant entrepreneurs, helping them to get established, and providing
‘them an environment that allows them to remain and flourish as part of Brockville
community and economy.

PURPOSE
‘Te purpose ofthis took is two-fold

11 To provide recommendations based an research, anaji, consultation, and
‘outreach to the Cty of Brockville so that stakeholders may immediately bain
attraction offers at a numberof levels including lea, regional, provincial, federal
and global.

2 Te bul the capacity ofthe intrested stakeholders from the Cty of Brockville
{and other relevant stakeholders as wal as their counterparts in like communes),
to attract, welcome, and retain new immigrant entrepreneurs tothe City and
the region


Background

Rural communities in Ontario, and many across Canada, find themselves in a complicated
‘situation when it comes to population growth, and the concomitant effects of such growth
(or stagnation), on economic development. The City of Brockville is no exception. With a
‘population that has been incrementally decreasing ot staying relatively neutral since 2006,
Brockville finds itself among the many municipalities across Ontario (and Canada) that seeks
to create innovative ways of attracting residents and investment, both meant to ensure the
long-term viability of the ity. As Caldwell (2010) points out, in the future, “the issue for
‘much of rural Ontario is nt likely ro bea shortage of jobs but, rather, a shortage of people to
‘occupy key positions. With impending retirements, continued youth out-migration, and the
traction of large urban centres co immigrants, it will be ficult find skilled labour in
‘many professions. An opportunity, albeit a challenging one, is fr eural communities to target
‘immigrants asa means to maintain essential services”).

Brockville was an early adopter of immigration approaches to economic development that
have been popular in Canada since the mito late-1970s, Thanks to an innovative Economic
Development Department and Director, David Paul, Brockvlle's economic development

1 Florida isan economy tat is “riven by ideas, innovation, knowledge, cllaberation, and
creativity It employs people who ae pad to think” (Florida, nd: 11). Features of creative
‘economies have been described asthe “thtee Ts of economic development” Talent, Technology
And Tolerance (Stolaick, 2012: 1) Stclavick further explains the thee Ts of economic
‘evelopment as

part ofa theory that gives primacy to the atraction and eetention ofa specific ype af aptal—
‘restive captal, Creative capital difers fom human spt by Wenlfing the Ceatve Class at
‘ey to econo rowzh and its focus onthe underlying factors tat determin tei location
ecsions(Forda, 2002). ta the Creative Econoy, brawn an the ability 1 mass produce
goods subordinate wo the inate human capability to generate new seas, concepts, products
in processes, The Creative Cas is defined as people in occupations paid o think. Regions
that attrac and retain this group of workers ae best posoned wo succeed inthe fue. The
slbal cy hierarchy of use Creative Age wil be determined not by aces o natural resourees,
‘but by how and which are ale wo tract this las of worker Gd.)

Brockville is currently competing on this global stage and vying fra place in the “global
city hierarchy” that Stolarick speaks of. This teseach projec spar of a lager immigration
“strategy that has been articulated in which Brockville is seeking to become a flourishing
‘slobal business destination. Brockville’: Economic Development office has, ina concerted
‘way, been working on an immigration atraction and retention strategy since 2010, meaning
‘that Brockville has not only been identified asa competitive force in terms of ts creative
‘economy status, bu that some infrastructure and groundwork has been lad toward the goals
‘of atrating immigrant entrepreneurs and foreign direc investment.

Page 53 of 116

2th conan he prince ER an Aa ono rl

Lager chs, war
2013 MIT study rae en
psec

Page 54 of 116

Methodology

“This research project was designed via the grant application as a qualitative research study
with thre different lines of inguity. These lines of inquiry are clearly articulated in the overall
logic mode required for che grant aplication. A summary ofthe model can be described
‘hush

‘+ To undertake a situational analysis to better understand Brockville’ cutent immigrant
entrepreneurs

+ Tocollece best practices of simila-sized communities inthe region

+ To evaluate the potential for bridge-builing with Oxawa-area embassies and ethnic
‘business associations

“The complete logic mode! canbe found in Appendix C.
“This ask quite the fllowing steps and stages:
1 Undertake a Situational Analysis: Brockville’ immigrant entrepreneurs

Prior to beginning the research phase, the Project Researcher distributed a Stakeholder
Pre-Questionnaite that serves asa baseline measure ofthe existing capacity ofthe City
‘of Brockville prior to the study, As che study is meant to build the eapaciy ofthe Cty,
‘of Brockville, twas important eo have an understanding of what capacity exits so that
‘the project could successfully met the knowledge capaciy needs ofthe Ciy. Based on
‘the information provided bythe Economic Development Director, the Leeds & Grenville
Immigeation Partnership, the Leeds & Greoville Small Business Enterprise Centre, and
‘the Downtown Business Assocation, the names and contact information of known |

local immigrant entrepreneurs were secured and all have been contacted to dae. The
‘numberof contacts made was approximately 30 and 20 interviews were conducted

in total. ln-dopth interviews were conducted in person bythe Project Researcher with
cach entrepreneur. Interviews ranged from a half-hour to an hour and aha depending
‘on the detail provided by each pattiepant inthe semi-structured interview format.

‘The incerview schedule can be found in Appendix D.A database of local immigrant
entrepreneurs was compiled and being added eo as necessary to keep ic up-to-date.

‘This database wil be available though the City of Brockwill’s Economie Development
Department, che Leeds & Grenville Immigration Partnership, andthe Leeds & Grenville
‘Small Business Enterprise Cente. Inthe grant application, focus groupe were outlined
‘8 method of daa generation however a decision was made to focus on the in-depth
Inerviews asa means ro generate meaningful data about immigrant entrepreneurial
experiences and to forgo the focus groupe and surveys. This decision was primarily based
‘on the need to maximize the use ofthe entrepreneurs’ ime as they are often solely
responsible fr the running of ther businesses and cannot spate the time for multiple
(olunteer) research engagements.

2. Rest Practices Research

Upon entering che postion, the Project Researcher began compiling list of best
practices tha encompassed local, regional, provincia, and in some case, national
“rateges around immigrant atraction and retention, These resources provided a
foundation forthe lierature review conducted before beginning the research phase of
‘the project. This literature review was intended to help formulate appropiate research
{questions fr each population interviewed


Page 55 of 116

Interviews/consultations have taken place with similar communities inthe region
including Belleville, Prince Edward County, Kemprvile, and Smiths Falls, Various
‘contacts with Globl Affairs, specifically its Trade Commissioner Service helped to shed
light on best practices with regard to connecting with embassies and ethnic business
associations in the Ottawa area and beyond.

{3 Outreach/Consultation with Embassies and Ethnic Business Assoc

Based on research and consulkation with the Director of Economic Developmen,
‘the Project Manager of the Leeds & Grenville Immigration Partnership, and Global
Aifairs Canada, the Project Researcher contacted 12 Ottawa-area emisies and
chambers of commerce (24 roa). Of these 12 embassies, four participated and provided
‘recommendations on what they see as best practices forthe City of Brockville
endeavours to attract entrepreneurial citizens oftheir nations. Three Chambers of
‘Commerce, South African, German, and the Netherlands, participated by outlining their
‘ole in immigrant entrepreneur attraction, The evidence hase forthe selection of these
‘twelve counties emerged ou of existing research on immigration to Canada which
‘widely reports tat the primary motivation for choice ofa new home county is existing
family fiends, and community. The 12 embassies that were selected therefore reflect the
largest existing immigrant population in Brockville and surrounding area. Additionally,
‘the Director of Economic Development, Davi Paul, has trade and diplomatic
partnerships chat informed the choice of involvement of certain key counties (eg. China
and Norway),

Immigration to Brockville in National and Global Context

‘The rural populations of communities across Canada often wonder why immigrant aration (EES
{sat the top of the list of 0 many municipalities inthis country. Queries such a, "Why Would Theat as wat’

we wane to attract mote peopl to areas where people ate stugsing to find employment aoe aene wee
and having dtc offering services to those who alzeay ive here?” The question fs a eee
‘good one and, fortunately, the answer is also quite simple: The faci, as rural populations nin
ectne, 35 the majority are Gave for some communities tha ay atthe outskirts of expanding wwe aes paraie
high-density rural areas) these communities ned suppor from outside, just as Canada as 8

whole does in order to grow and thrive. What rural communities are experiencing in terms
‘of population decin representa microcosm of what is happening in Ontario, aa provincial
level, ad in Canada on a national level. Canada as country faces situation where the
residents of the nation no longer meet the replacement frit rate needed to sustain the
population. This reality means that, without immigration, Canada's population would be
headed toward decline. The Government of Canada reports tha, in recent ies,

‘he comtibtin of natural increase to population growth as waned asthe Canadian populasion
ged and fry rte declined. Today, natural increase accounts fo less than one-thed af
‘Canads population growth and has ceased wobe the majo player inthe equation, Meanie,
_migaee increase [immigration] pay a increasing rle in Canada's population growth
Migratory increase curently acount for about two-thids of Canada’s poplation growth
(Population growth: Migratory increase overtakes natural increas, Statistics Caras, 2016)

‘Statistics Canada projects chat immigration will ot only continue tobe a ky driver of
population growth in the coming year—without it, Canada’s population growth could be close
‘to 2er0in 20 years (iid). This realty has significant implications forthe Canadian labour


Page 56 of 116

force and the availability of service providers and others who will undoubtedly be needed to
support Canada’ ging population

Rural communities reflec this sifting population reality because ofthe significant
‘utmigration of youth from rural communities where jobs tend ta be scarcer as industry

thas changed. In order o thrive as communities and as a nation, Canada must welcome
‘newcomers. mimigration is also understood as necessary tothe well-being ofthe province. As
‘the Chair of Ontario's Expert Roundrable on Immigration, Jlla Deans, asserts, “eis clear to
‘us tha immigration is crucial othe well-being of every person in Ontario" (The Final Report
By Ontario's Expert Roundtable on Immigration (FROERI), 2012) The Rounsabe goes

‘on to explain that Canada vias built on natural sources; ite frre wil be bile on human
resources” (hid)-In shor, immigration is necessary at federal, provincial, and municipal
levels in order 9 maintain Canadian economic, social, cultural, and population needs.

‘The City of Brockville hasbeen aware ofthis reality for some time and has been participating
actively inthe global “race for talent” (FROERI, 2012: 12) by recognizing cha immigration is
Jey to the economic development of the City and acting asa key player in the establishment
ofthe Leeds & Grenville Immigration Partnership (LIP in 2010. Concomitantly, the City

‘of Brockville has heen recognized asa benchmark “creative economy” in rural Ontario
‘meaning that, as a communi, i an exemplar of what the Martin Prosperity Instiute deems
‘economically ideal in terms of attracting newcomers who will help build te economy.
Economic immigrant, inthe municipal interpretation of Dr, Richard Florida's (Director of
‘the Martin Prosperity Insitute) groundbreaking work on the creative economy, are members
‘ofthe “creative clas," che group tht helps to build the communities that house them by.
‘engaging in high-tech, professional and encepreneurial endeavours chat are job-creatng for
‘communities, This means thatthe higher rate of eeative clase members a community h

‘the higher the potential for economic prosperity. This reflects the Roundtable’ suggestion
ove, that human resources-more specifically, human capital—will build the future of
‘Canada. Human capital is another way of saying all of che sis and knowledge necessary
toproduce economic growth and is seen as something the individual possesses by virtue of
‘the education, caning, and experience they have acquired This “ace for talent is therefore
global rae for human capital—chat i, talented people willing ro immigrate—that has
“uniquely local implications

“The sift o the aeration of individuals from the acraction of large industry comes from
‘the global economic realities of offshoring nd the inability ofthe Canadian matket

to compete in some key sectors. The days of large industry as main local employer and
economy driver are over. The City of Brockville has recognizes this for some time and

thas engaged strategic initiatives to compete for creative class talent by way of immigrant
attraction strategies. In its publication Benchmarking the Creative Economy in Raral Ontario
Published in 2012, the Martin Prosperity Institue recommended that Brockville focus on
‘the “opportunity presented by much higher scores on diversity indicators, relative to other
rural areas, Moreover, Brockville should focus on building immigrant attraction strategies
Aimed at immigrants in nearby regions” (Martin Prosperity Institute, 2012: 10). The City
Implemented this recommendation and set about capalizing on its diversity indicators
and status asa creative economy by integrating key attraction strategies into the overall
‘economic strategie direction forthe City Immigration attraction was outlined asa key
strategic action for municipal services and government relationships in the 2015 Brockville
Economie Development Strategic Directions Update.

‘The Immigrant Entrepreneur Attraction Insaive (stared March, 2016 an funded by
‘the provincial Ministry of Citizenship and Immigration) is just one piece ofthis overall

Page 57 of 116

USING THIS TOOLKIT

‘As previously mentioned, tis tool was created te bul the informationalknowledge capacity needs ofthe City of
roche to help the City move forward with immigrant entrepreneur attraction and retention strategies. Homever,
‘since the outset, the intention fortis toot was for it to be generally applicable beyond the City of Brockvle
oper by being general enough so that sections, recommendation, andlor general strategies frm the foot coukt
be employed by other smal ciylcente municipalities. T date, few toolkits exst about immigrant entrepreneur
traction especialy anes that are specific to smaller centres. This toolkits for use by any se-ientfied ety or
town that wants to undertake an immigrant entrepreneur atracton itive no matter how big or small the centre
cor the inti, The main philosophy Behind the toolkit ta use what's elevant and a¢3pt what you can for your
specie city, tn, and local contert, and ignore the rest excapt as it provides meaningful conext/recommencatons
‘tom another centre with similar goal.

‘municipal strategy that seeks to bring i talent in two ways: by attracting people from their
‘home countries (primary migrants) to come to Canada to star a life and buld a business or
invest in existing or new busineses in Canada and, by ttacting people from more densely
populated urban centres (Secondary migrants) who want to experience the quality of life
‘that smaller centtes ike Brockville offer. By investigating the experiences ofthe many local,
‘immigrant entrepreneurs, building bridges with Octawa-atea embassies and ethnic chambers
‘of commerce, and consulting with other economic development departments in the region,
‘this projet seeks to understand the best way forward for the Ciy of Brockville’ immigrant
attraction strategic action, Brockville ison the cutting-edge of what is happening in terms of
‘demographic and economic tends in Canada that will ensure the best posible future forall
‘Canadians, no matter where they come from ar how ong they have made Canada home.

“The necessary answer to"Wh immigration?" is because of an aging population, an
Anticipated shrinking workforce, and skills shortages in sectors critical to Ontario's prosperity"
(FROERI, 2012: 1) chat make immigrant aration initiatives necessary. As A New Dieton
Ontario's igration Strategy rightfully points out, “building stronger, inclusive communities
‘that promote and value diversity will elp all Ontario municipalities grow and succeed”
(Government of Ontario, 2012). Brockville is one community thats unique in its foresight
and is ensuring it community's success by preparing and providing forts cuene and future
tesidents through immigean attraction srategies.

‘States designed sinpy
te ata pple re neser
‘a alo be eaind thy,
lc: Te wl depend on

= Nationa ring Group on
(wmescs, 007.21)

Page 58 of 116

PART 2 BUILDING THE FOUNDATIONS

Overarching Recommendations,

‘While there are many recommendations chat informa this toolkit, there are two main
‘overatching recommendations that i all ofthe succeeding recommendations together.
“These targets ae:

ecenng.a er chive cnmuny acl Becning a cnmany wee secondary wigants

ivety look sete

+ rat ty nclasuty aalcment oberg + Callaerte with er mangle on

+ um he Catan Coston of Mugen «dp agli secondary get tacton
‘Aaa! Race Aa Discrimination CCMARD) sttesy

+ Hea Cit rcsen and Overt Owe + Use get resent atbactin sates

+ Crate a nestopop tr iment sevice incang sets in te mei atts

“This section outlines the overall ecommendations chat resul from this qualitative reseatch
study, and bes practices appraisal, into wat i necessary and essential to build the capacity
ofthe City of Brockville to attract and retain immigrant entrepreneurs aa greater rte.

“These recommendations can and shouldbe implemented according to differen imeframes,
Implementation wil require a commitment to inclusion and diversity noc only as a key
component of attraction, but also asa fundamental necessity of every municialicy and
‘workplace. While this report will mainly consider che economic benefits of opening the
‘community's doors ro newcomers, ft should noe be averiooked that immigrants benefit
‘communities in multifarious way including social cultural, and professional, Diversity and
Inclusion ae esential to any communitys success in the 21st century. As the Associaton of
Urban Municipalities in Aberta (AUMA) outlines? municipalities are tasked with providing
good governance, providing services and facilities that are necessary in the opinion of council
And developing safe and viable communities under the Municipal Governance Act (5). AUMA
argues that municipalities cannot fully succed in these task fa portion ofthe population i
‘excluded [or snot uly included) from engaging in democratic governance assesing services
oF facilities, or enjoying security and prosperity because of discrimination [exclusion] (bid)
Further AUMA argues cha "Whether the priority sto drive down the infrastructure defi,
diversify the economy or develop a move vibrant cultural lif, building a reputation as an
Inclusive community wil help ateract the divest of individuals required to contribute to the
labour marker, the economy, and the social and cultural dimensions of your municipality”
(bid). Diversity and inclusion creates reciprocally reinforcing structure—by having a
‘community that i predicated on these values you build a more vibrant, vly and sucessful
community. Keeping this s mind, the fst overarching goal—thats, working toward becoming
a mere inclusive community that celebrates diversity, wil be explored next

peur calsesiiauuiea/Rdneay Prope. Inaves/MCiwe taka 2.201529


Page 59 of 116

FIVE LEVELS OF INCLUSION

A municipal evaluation of inclusion was undertaken to determine where the Cty of Brockvil is in tetms af work
being done towards being a welcoming and inclusie community, Tis evaluation was dane va an evaluation tol
esigned and disseminated bythe Alberta Urban Municipalities Association (AUMA. Inclusion can be defined at
multiple levels AUMA (201) identified five levels of inclusion:

lvsible: versity and inclusion ae not onthe radar, overt or subtle dicriminaton is present

+ Awareness: There is some effort being made to welcome minority or marginalized people but ations taken to
access it lack adequate resources, do not happen consistently and are 2 hac

Itetional Inclusion: Oficial statements have been made about the importance of diversity and inclusion; ideas
about who makes up the “mainstream” ofthe communty ae starting to broaden

+ Strategie Inclusion: Long-term, brood reaching strategic messures are taken to dcreace barriers to participation for
people who have lng been marginalize; the idea of who i "normal” has shifted fo be more reflective of a varety
of human eifference

+ Cultuce of inclusion: il ayers of identity an citference are considered and supported, and systemic processes
{or maintaining inclusion are fully woven into the organization ofthe community: inclusion isa way of Iie and all
residents are supported to reach thir full potential (p. 10)

‘TARGET ONE: INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY
Becoming a more inclusive community that celebrates diversity

‘As mentioned above, the work of Dr, Richard Florida has highlighted che “olerant™ nature of
Brockville and identifies this tolerance asa key component ofthe existing infrastructure that
should attract members ofthe “creative class” including immigrants and newcomers of ll
‘kinds, Because Florida's thesis aligns with human capital strategies that sek to attrac based
‘on the acknowledgentent ofthe cumulative skis and knowledge a person has when evaluating
‘thet potential contributions tothe community, olrance i viewed asa postive aspect of a
‘community that these individuals are loking for when thinking about where they will ete
‘Tolerance as a notion is outdated however, and strategies that ae looking to attract the best
and the brightest from around the wold or even nationally, must recognize that tolerance is far
from enough in creating a welcoming envionment. Inclusion is rather the focus thatthe City of
Brockville should formally adopt—that x working toward becoming. more inclusive community.
Inclusion is preferred over integration a there i an element of conformity that ie expected by
‘way of multiculturalism or diversity projects that expecta kind of assimilation to the nocm in
‘order tobe succesful. Inclusion means thatthe City of Brockville would strive tbe the kind
‘of community chat actively embraces newcomers and celebrates diversity in areal and profound
‘way Brock, a a community, is fortunate to have one of the longest running Multicultural
Festivals in the entice country which sno small fet. However, multiculturalism, and

versity inal ts forms, i greater than a weekend iis the fabric of society and needs ro be
acknowledged as such. Strategies such as the Leeds & Grenille Immigration Partnership (LIP),
{collaborative of organizations throughout Leeds & Grenville that work to attract, welcome
land retain newcomers to the area, have been adopted and are making importan strides in the
‘community in terms of projects and evens that promote diversity (ee Appendix E for a recent
‘event by the LIP). However, the LIP after sx years in operation, is stil looking at welcome

in terms of strategy meaning thatthe community isl is sill very ch inthe beginning
stages in terms ofthe aration, welcoming and tetention of immigrants. According to the LP,
_movement on immigration hasbeen very slow in Brockville. However, accrding to Melissa
Francs, Project Manager of the LIP progres is being made in terms of increased understanding
of the importance of bringing immigrants ere (by LIP partners) and general suppor far the

ste separate it wo
poups: Marcil Aes
11 ree Leadership and
Iplemenatin and
races; Employee
Engagement and Euston
Develop Inrstcte
tn bares Resp
(HUM Muni Evtton
tol, 2016,

Page 60 of 116

programy/program mandate demonstrated by numberof ndivdualsorganisatins who attended
‘the fist annual Diversity Day organized by the LIP, che numberof nominations for immigrant
‘entrepreneur award, and the amount of in-kind resource being contributed to LIP—to name but
few vays the LIP making 2 significant impact in moving immigration forward in Brockville
‘Additionally, an inclusivity evaluation ofthe City was undertaken by the Project Researcher and
‘the results indicate chat the City of Brockville, andthe community of Brockil,has dane work
‘on inclusivity and divers, but cere i til a ways to go.

Results of the Municipal Inclusion Assessment

‘A certain level of welcome and inclusion is required for any city to attract, welcome, and
‘tain newcomers. Any effort co attract immigrant entrepeneurs therefore, has to establish
‘what level of inclusion hasbeen achieved ae well as what reasonable argets need tobe in
place to achive a greater level of inclusion and, by extension, a greater ability to forward that
community as place where newcomers are wanted, welcomed, and included as part ofthe
fabric ofthe community.

are assessed, each
‘with indicators that help identify where the community fs in with an accurate degree of
specificity. These areas cover municipal government and community areas of inclusion from
Leadership and Accountability ro Citizen and Community Engagement. The evaluation tol
itself is based on the concept of benchmarking meaning that iallows the City of Brockville
‘compat its “current sate with oustanding practice elsewhere inorder t help yout
‘municipality improve" (bid. 4)

Based on data and information gleaned through in-depth qualitative interviews with local
‘immigrant entrepreneurs, consultations with local and regional economic development
departments, interviews, wih local service personnel and agencies that serve newcomers

And immigrant, research into municipal policies and practices, aswell as analysis of local
‘media outlets, che inclusion evaluation wa conducted. Out ofa possible score of 56 points
‘that exemplify what it means to have a Culture af Inclusion in any community, the City of
Brockville ates 28. Atan inclusion rate of 50%, Brockville stands in a solid middle ground—a
position that indicates both successes and areas that can be improved. Brockville i trong
‘when i comes ro Economic Development Other Municipal Services (eg affordable housing
‘wansit) but needs improvement in the areas of Employee Engagement and Education and
‘Commitment of Resources for example, So what does this mean moving forward? The
following recommendations are forwarded tha align with the key areas of focus thatthe City
‘of Brockville can work coward

Defining & Enacting Inclusion

‘The Cty of Brockville has in recent years been acknowledged provinilly as a"olrant
community” based on the work of Richard Florida who identified key benchmark communities
{in Ontario (Stoarck, 2012). Tolerant communities are defined by Florida generally as
“places that are open to new ideas” (Florida, 2012, np) This classification fr Brockville i
largely due tothe major strides the City has made in terms of acknowledging, including, and
accommodating the LGBTQ community. Brockville has recently been ranked fourth out of

ten gay-friendly cites in Ontario by Discover Gay Ontario (2014) and Florida asserts tat
place that’s a comfortable home o the gay community is likey to be open to all (Florids,
2000: 2). However, inclusivity argues AUMA, must consider “how all elements of difference
Inetset, and how discrimination based on diferent layers of identity often interiocks to

{The Geography Trance ip nu ct crs) 201207 tance 28)

reinforce and perpetuate eachother” (AUMA, 2014 7). Essentially inclusion work cannot
focus on ane grotip tothe exclusion of al others, The City of Brockville is however making
ignifcant inroads into inclusive practice trough is work with the LGBTQ communiy and
‘therefore has a significant framework through this work for building other kinds of inclusivity.
According 0 AUMA, "if we are truly committed to eradicating discrimination and inequity,
‘we must be willing to look atthe numberof interlocking ways tat people are disadvantaged
and mistreated” (id. 7) Further, the focus of this evaluation too is structural inequality
land identifying how i can be eradicated through more inclusive policies and practices, What
4o inclusive policies and practices look like for che Ciy of Brokvile?Specic indicators and
recommendations are outlined below, Some ofthese ae outlined inthe evaluation too self
‘but are primaily the resul ofthe data and information gathered inthis eseatch project and
are therefore specific ro the City and community of Brockville.

Draft an Inclusivity and Diversity Charter

A numberof cities in Canada and across the word, including Monteal, Barcelona, Auckland,
land Stuttgare, ave created urban charters and “ground-breaking policy innovations” chat are
‘esponding to the diversity of the new urban mainstream and bringing forward an agenda

for inclusion and shared urban prosperity according ro Cities of Migration a leading source
‘of eutting-edge global strategy in municipal leadership on immigrant integration (Cities of
‘Migration, 2012: 13) Cites of Migration suggests that leadership i abou to change in the
‘urban context and tha it is no longer about “preserving the status quo” but rather about
“finding new opportunities to allow all residents co thrive—examyples ate through city charters
‘that promote urban citizenship" and inerculturalism, or “co-existence in diversity” (rom
Barcelona's charter) that is cental to the succes of ll members and institutions across the
‘urban landscape (ibid. 1). Cities must ake the lad, and mayoral voice has a special place
here. According to Cities of Migration, “Mayoral voice canbe a particularly powerful fol to
accelerate the pat ro inclusion, Neither integration nor inclusion can happen accidentally or
‘overnight (bid 12) City leadership plays a key role in building a charter on inclusion and
diversity. Brockville curenty finds itself in a siuation where there is an acknowledgement

‘of civersity, and increasing diversi, within the Ciy ise However, because Brockville
‘demographics have remained relatively stable for eo long, the "need for inclusive polices i
‘ot atthe forefront of thinking or action except where there is an imminent, identified need,
6g incoming Syrian refugee families. There is no one appointed atthe municipal government
level tat is accountable for inclusion a part of thee management role.

KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

* Create opportunites fr municipal leadership to communicate the progress being made
towards inclusion ta ctzens and community groups

Sign ont the decaration of Canadian Municipalities Against Racism and
Diseimination (CCMARD) to communicate your muicipaltys commitment to social
|ustce, to create accountability and to gan acess to networks of municipalities
‘working towards the same vision (see Appendix F& G fora fll exploration of the
benefits of joing CCMARD) note thatthe Cty Charter can be part of the Action Plan
required by CCMARD as a requirement of membership

* Develop programs to encourage the election of underepresented candidates to
municipal office

+ Suppor other municipalities by sharing inovative approaches, lessons learned and
expertise, Participate in networks that are working toward simi goals

Page 61 of 116

Page 62 of 116
Commitment of resources

[No staff or elected oficial in che organization has a formal responsiblity for addressing
diversity, discrimination ot inclusion issues.

KEY RECOMMENDATIO

* Articulate the benefits of allocating resources to buldng inclusion and equity and
create a resource plan based on determination of need and an assessment of where
‘the best opportunities for success exist

* Develop a resource listo ocal and provincial organizations working towards inclusion
and equity that could support municipal natives, and review existing resources
in municipal departments to see how they canbe leveraged to provide suppor for
inclusion relate itatives

Collaborate with other municipalities and community organizations to share resources
{@3.via regional economic development allances, provincial Family and Community
‘Support Senices networks)

+ Hie a Chet Diversity and Inclusion Officer (CDIO)

Under Commiment of Resources, the hiring of a Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer
(CIO) is necessary. The CDIO can hep build the capacity of the City of Brockville to
‘become a welcoming, inclusive, and diverse city by being the point person om all things
diversity and inlusion related. A ful ob Posting fo this postion can be found in Appendix H,
‘but Description of Responsibilities is as fllows

(Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer: Description of Responsibilities

‘The Chief Diversity and Inclusion Oficer (CIO) poston eequire an experienced and
namic individual who bas a deep understanding af the complsity and multiple dimensions
of avery inclusion, and equity inlading—but not limited to—age, las, eature d/l,
ethnic, gender, nationality, ace, religion sprtualty, gender entity sexual celentaton, and
secoeconomie satus

‘The CDIO will have a passion for woeking directly wit the public and with and alongside
iy oflaleon ew effots that culate, enhance and pomote 4 iy of lnelusvenes and a
climate af euity in which all people may live, work and theve. One ey area of thi ale will
‘be theamplementaton of the commendations made in the 2016 Best Practices Toole, Where
‘he Wr Cr Reside: A Tali for Aerating Iigran Entepeers Sal Cy Cana that

vas conducted in part to fester the capacity of The City of Brockile oceate a welcoming,
Jnclusive, and diverse community with and for newcomers and existing residents

‘The Chief Diversity and Inclusion Oficer wil report deel tothe Cty Manager ad will
provide counsel on all matters pertaining to divert and inclusion excellence. The CDIO
‘Provides executive letdership and vision inthe Cty administration ona comprehensive range
‘of services, polices, and procedures related to diversity and inclusion excellence. The CDIO
paiipates in all epects of natutinal planning in support ofthe mission aed goals ofthe
iy including meting the neds of cur diverse population and creating a living ad working
‘environment where all have the oppoetsit to succeed

‘The CDIO wil also be responsible for helping to create a more dvese City Council and Cty

Hall swell as canduc contract gi learning and raining about inclusion and dversey
sn uh workplace fer both the City and interested communiy members

Finally, an approach to atraction will require a stronger infrastructure on the part of the City
‘of Brockville around immigrant services, The best practice here is aone stop shop that can
‘meet the neods of incoming residents whether employment, language, or general setlement
related needs, Brockville doing extemely well or a small community in terms of immigrant
services with the combined efforts ofthe Employment + Education Centre (EEC) and TR Leger
Immigrant Services / TR Leger Services aux Immigrants. These services are what you might
call “teranc in terms of they ae largely on an as needed or critical mass basis meaning that
‘theres no ongoing, predetermined, coordinated effore around immigrant services in Brockville
Immigrants can receive language taining through TR Leger and employment services via the
EEC but thet is no one, dedicate place that immigrants can go for wraparound services,

KEY RECOMMENDATION

' The City should partner with existing immigrant serving organizations to develop 2 one
stop shop model of immigrant services that would help constitute the infrastructure
needed tobe a welcoming, accessible, inclusive community

Page 63 of 116

\which, according ots website, is a community-based career and employment centre offering
4 varlety of programs and services to jb seekers and employers in various communities in
Eastern Ontario, Keys already has satelite locations in various parts of Leeds & Grenville

and i equipped and willing to provide immigrane services traning for interested community
‘organizations serving Brockville, Tis i an opporcunity fr buildin the capacity ofthe City of
Brockville thatthe community would be emis to pas up. This partnership and collaboration
‘between the City of Brockville and Keys would build the capacity ofthe City and interested
‘community organizations and would provide a foundation forthe necessary immigrant
services needed by the City in the ultimate goal of atracting immigrant entrepreneurs
Impoctantly, this recommendation full a need identified by local immigrant entrepreneurs
for more immigrane services,

‘TARGET TWO: REGIONALIZING
Becoming a community where secondary migrants look to settle

‘Overall Population Strategy, Regionalizing, and Regionalization

‘When cities talk about immigrant attraction, they are in some ways, alceady articulating the
‘beginnings ofa population strategy but much i implied wichout ever being fully spelled out.
For example, in stating that a community is looking to attract immigeant entrepreneur, there
‘is an implication that these individuals have capital and ae willing fo put it to use in that
‘community. There is an implied quid pro quo to this kind of atraction. Atraction initiatives
like this would have to be designed and targeted atthe specific countries where these
entrepreneurs reside—communties in Canada are going to give priority to some countries and
‘their entrepreneurs over others.

Brockville would benef from establishing an overall population strategy that seeks ro attract
evcomers in a broad-based but strategie vay, Part ofthis overall population strategy would
Include che attraction of immigrants ad immigrant entrepreneurs, The City of Brockville
_must be strategic in fs attraction of immigrants and immigrant entrepreneurs and so
should therefore commit tothe ateraction of secondary migrants—those people who
hhave already entered Canada and are looking o relocate to smaller centres for increased
{quality of lf. As repeatedly mentioned inthe interviews with local immigrant entrepreneurs,
Brockville is strategically located ata literal cross-pont with Kingston (and the Greater Toronto

“The following propams ae
caren dled by KEYS:

+ Enplement Oris
Employment Services

lsh Language Cases

Imig! Enola

reson
+ Opprtuntes Fant
(Pesos wih isaities)
Presi
Tom Taped ntti
1 age subsites and
(emplges)
(Sumer Popam)

atest mecating,
Hl, a ecuing en
emergent tasen
ata wih et igs
dia ering

Page 64 of 116

‘Area fother on) 10 the west, Ouawa tothe north, Montreal tthe east, and the United States
irecty south (with two nearby border crossings roughly twenty minute’ drive ro both the east
land wes of the City). This strategic location makes it attractive and well-positioned for those
ape who ate looking fr opportunikes for an improved quality of life ina more rural and
affordable location than larger urban centres can provide. Reionalizaton is described ae the
process whereby diferent stratogies are employed to spread the benefits of immigration across
‘Canada (National Working Group on Small Centre Sateges [NWGSCS], 2007: 16). With the
ew federal Liberal government under Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and the appoinement

‘of Minister John McCallum tothe Immigration and Citizenship porflio, Canada is seeing 2
‘renewed interest in regionalization from the very highest levels of government. As of August
17,2016, Minister McCallum was speaking openly about che Governmen’s desire to "spread
‘migrants evenly across che country” through the intentional encouragement of immigrants
1 settle outside of Toronto and Vancouver The discussion about regionalization is nothing
‘ew and vas most recently activate before this current incamation in the ate 1990s and eatly
2000s, What was sa about regionalization then sil holds true today however, and muuch can
‘be learned about the potential for this kind of strategy for smaller communities ike Brockville
‘through an exploration ofthis thinking abous policy and practice.

Targeted Secondary Migration Attraction Plan

‘As discussed inthe Embassy Outcomes, a targeted approach to attracting specific immigeant
entrepreneurs from specific relevant countries would be necessary for primary migrant
attraction stateges (hat is, attracting entrepreneurs from their home countries) This
‘Toolkit recommends that Brockville focus on the attraction of secondary migrants, thats
‘those people who have already migrated to Canada from thee home countries, However,

the recommendation fora targeted approach to attracting secondary migrants from other
parts of Canada, and Ontario specifically, remains relevant tothe discussion of aration,

For example, in genera, Western European immigrancs tnd ta be atracted to Canada due
‘ots natural beauty and expansiveness. Mr. Frank Hartmann, from the German Embassy,
suggested thatthe ity of Brockville emphasize its natural beauty as opposed is cty scape
‘as a means o target marke to Germans, When reviewing Brockville’ promotional magazine,
(Mr, Hartmann’ fst reaction was to indicate thatthe nature photographs were much more
appealing and should be highlighted more than the cityscapes. While tis isan arguably
subjective take of one person, twa reiterated by the local immigrant entrepreneurs from The
"Netherlands. These are ofcourse not the same countries, Germany and The Netherlands, but
are geographically close an people who have immigrated from these countries tend to express
‘the same sentiments regarding Canada—tha its clean, beautiful, natural, and less congested
‘then the parts of Eutope where they ate fom, In conversation with other local immigrant
‘entrepreneurs from different parts of the world, having existing relations here made all the
diference to choice of location, specifically, those enttepreneurs frm India. This means that
diferent approaches to attraction are necessary for different groups

KEY REL N

Assess the attractors, of “pull” factors, fr ifferent groups and then market
specially to those groups via those attractors.

NDATI

“This Toolkit provides a starting pont fr this kind of attraction a ic outlines what atracted
local immigrant entrepreneurs othe area. In adltion, this recommendation is heavy linked
‘with the recommendation to link turism and atraction efforts which wil be detalled more in
‘what follows,

‘A regional approach to this kind of attraction is desirable and necessary. There isa proposed
‘regional economic development eniyin process forthe region —the St. Lawrence Cottidor
Economic Development Commission—which would span across seven municipalities,
{Inching Brockville, along the 401 corridor. There ate other muniipaies and invested
partes along this Corridor, including Mayor Doug Malanka of Augusta Township, who are
Inetested in immigeant attraction efforts and this emerging entity makes those kinds of
regional connections easier and more achievable. Prince Edward County is a municipality that
thas adopted a regional approach to resident attraction by taking on a governance role with
‘the Bay of Quinte Living Council whichis an umbrella non-for-prot marketing organization
‘that includes Quinte Wes, Belleville, the Homebuilder’s Assocation, Local Realtors, Toutimn
Council, Quinte Immigration Partnership and others. According to Nell Carbone, Director of|
(Community Development fr Prince Edward County, The Living Council and ite members are
«essentially looking to leverage the marker of tourists turn them into homebuyers/tesidents.
‘While not specifically immigrant-focuse, the target market for thie group isthe “footloose”
professional who often comes from the Greater Toronto Area (GTA) looking fr affordably
And that dtficuleto-define “quality of if" factor according ro Mr. Catbone—a professional
‘that sounds very mach the creative class professional that Brockville hasbeen encouraged to
tract, Again, this kindof efor requires a coordinated approach that includes tourism as a
focal point of atracion.

In terms of marketing, courism, and overall attraction efforts a necutrng idea emerged inthe
inerview data with local immigrant entrepeneurs—that of ethnic media advertising. Mr Jag
(Chawla, owner of Apex Industries Inc pu it most directly when he stated,

What can we do more to blp pope? They can gota ethnic communities and put the word out. You
ont seta very often insta ging to Tavnto or Otawa, come wo Brokyl Ifyou want to
sec up your busines, wel blp you. People dont know where Brocll,they dow know anything
‘bout it Belvo Broce, pope petit mixed up and og in front ofthe ethnic med, you
wlscea response to it in avery postive way. They all atch it and they ee acing for work and
looking tostle down... mu going to say agai, we eed to do more advertising in the Toronto
‘and Ottawa media. Allth medi, [dant ink to many people watch Otawa, Toronto TV stations.
“There ave radia stations wecan se "Come tomy cman.” but you have to have something to
fer these they came and they say, “whet do [ono You hae tobe able tosay this is
‘wha ou con da and they bring milion of dollars ere and then they have some ides, ike open a
esauret, an IT company chins ie that The people wl ike the este

‘There isa common sentiment here that Brockville san unknown, and that it could easily be
known with greater attempts at argeting the right populations who are mobile, autonomous,
nd looking for the kind of quality of life that Brockville has co offer. The gol here ist get
eope hee, get people talking abour Brockville, eo that Brockville becomes a destination for
relocation like many other small beatiful communities are ecoming in the area (eg. Prince
Edvard County)

KEY RECO

NDATION,

+ Investigate relevant ethnic mea outlets and begin an advertising campaign that is
targeted toward the “Yctioose professional” loking fr increased quay of if

‘This excellent insights just one of the many insights and recommendations made by local
{immigrant entrepreneurs that informed the preceding recommendations, targets, and ations.
In Part Three, the recommendations made by local imumigeant entrepreneurs willbe examined
in more deal

Page 65 of 116

(0 elp pete? Tey can go
pute not et You aot
Sze hal ery aeons
gg Tet or Ota,
tome to roche ye
want to setup our business,
wet you

“The canenssappenrs
ployment abies

Page 66 of 116

PART 3
KEY RECOMMENDATIONS
BY LOCAL IMMIGRANT ENTREPRENEURS

Local Immigrant Entrepreneur Outcomes

Like many other communities in rural Ontario, Brockville has along history of hardworking
‘mmigrants coming tothe area and creating opportunities for themasves, where few may
have existed for them upon their arrival Brockville’ immigeane entrepreneur community is
‘ot unlike the immigrant entrepreneur communities across the word, and certainly across
‘Canada, who ave difficulty finding work and who therefore become entrepreneurs by
“default” As a recent article by Statistics Canada assets, “Immigrants are entrepreneurial
‘While immigrant business ownership rates ae low immediatly after entry, after four to
ight years in Canada they surpass those of the comparison group (Largely Canadian born)"
(Green, Liu and Picot, StatsCan, 2016: 5).A numberof reasons for this have been identified,
‘bur the consensus appears to be that a combination of language barriers, systemic racism and
discrimination, andthe lack of recognition of credentials and work experience that were not
{gained in Canada create a reality for immigrants that often push them int self-employment
‘or business ownership despite not having experience in business in their home country. The
majority ofthe twenty immigrant entrepreneuts I spoke to recounted some version ofthis
reality—they came to Canada, orto Brockville specifically, not wth the intention to become
entrepreneurs, and certainly not as entrepreneurs already, but became entrepreneurs through
‘series of event chat led them to either selEemployment or small business cuwnership such
4s their employer handing over the business upon retitement or working one’s way up from
lan employee tothe owner ofthe building where chey once worked, There are afew notable
‘exceptions to this trajectory which can be distilled into reasons for coming and prior business
‘experience. By and large however, Brockville’ immigrant entrepreneurs ae one communicy
‘thats actively working to revitalize the downtown care and has been and continues tobe, a
force fr innovation, change and advancement in Brockill's economic development.

Characteristics of Participants’

“Thete is no way to categorize or group the 20 participating local immigranc entrepreneurs
inthis scudy except to say that they ae all immigrant entrepreneurs. There are some
‘generalizations that can be made a the outset which ae relevant to overall findings and so
Will be explicate here. As with all generalizations, these are made with abroad brush that
‘losses over the nuances and differences which will be highlighted in ater discussions

In general, it can be said that che 20 participating local immigran entrepreneurs ‘ended up
in’ Brockville rather than choosing i asa destination ct. This realty is due wo a number of
factors afew of which include having family already inthe area (or moving othe area with
family because oftheir youth, coming from Quebec and looking fran alternative English-
speaking community (few individuals who came inthe 1990s fl real push out of Quebec
<during the 1995 Referendum), and some found opportunity here or created opportunity for
‘themselves after living in other parts of Ontario and Canada. Of chose who came a adults, ot
‘of working age (not students or those who artved with ther families in une mid-part ofthe


Page 67 of 116

20%h century), most were atracted by the socal, political, and economic climate of Canada

‘The majority described their decision to came to Canada, ifnot Brockville, as motivated by
‘etter life opportunities, particulary for their children, Canada was largely constructed as
inclusive, multicultural, diverse, and accepting—particularly in contract tothe United States
‘where many also considered moving for increased opporcunty. Everyone, tothe person,
stated that Brockville was a weleoming community which is puzaling when it comes to other
assertions by participants about being called names, feeling as though they ae being looked
{down upon, and fr those who largely spend time within thei ethnic community. Given
‘these contradictions, itis apparent that while Brockville s welcoming onthe surface, more
‘work needs robe done when it comes to inclusivity which is eiferent than welcome (more
fon this later and also in the inclusivity assessment results) Ic is important ro note that many
‘ofthe patiipants in this research study came from relative means which enabled them to
relocate from their home countries. Some explained that their families had money and so
‘they had che freedom ro explore and adventure to other countries, Some came with nothing:
‘there is one refugee in this study who had to rebuild her entire life with her twin sister and
‘her mother with her Brother's help, and some came with ver lite and had to find thet own
‘way but these are the exceptions. Fr the most part, chose who participated in this study
are largely university educated and all ae innovative, resourceful, and hard-working. The
‘majority relied on themselves and the networks they had as well as created for themselves to
‘build their businesses

‘The participant in this study are proud Brockvillians who are largely open-minded, and
‘ibera/eft leaning politically! They have a great investment in Brockville and Brockill’s
{economic and socal sucess. The main factors of pride in Brockville came from the central
leeation of Brockville as positioned within easy driving distance from major Canadian

‘urban centres as wells close proximity ro the United States. The St. Lavrence River was
also named as one ofthe main qualities ofthe area that participants loved about the area
‘Where there was a distinct epic in the overall group can be seen in the approaches co the
_move from respective home countries. Those from Westen Europe tended to construct the
‘move, whether on their own, with their families of erga, or the families they had create,
san adventure rather than a tit immigration. Those fom Asian counties constructed
the move a a search fora better life, for themselves and thee families Strict speaking,
‘these two broad groups can be understood as being from diferent kinds of culture clusters—
‘one an individualist custer and the ocher a collcivet cultural cluster. These twa clusters
have implications for attraction and retention efforts and sits important 1 acknowledge
_mativations and meanings of immigration and how they differ inorder to understand patterns
And flows of people coming into Canada and settling in Brockville. All ocal immigrant
entrepreneurs, no matter what their country of origin, are hardworking, contributing citizens
‘of Brockville and che vas majority volunteer in a leas one capacity. An important thtesd
‘that will be further fleshed out is the desire for local immigrant enteepreneuts, especially
‘those from visible minority groups, as not wanting to be seen as a drain on Canadian
resoutces of service and therefore emphasizing the extent to which they stood on their

‘own two fet, without formalized belp or assistance. Ths speaks to the need forthe City of
Brockville o foster a wider climate of inclusion and accessibility so that immigrants ate not
fearful of appearing to create situation of need and therefore, presumably, justify myths and
stereotypes of immigrants as teats and drains onthe system.

1 ove whe ware Toon pal ita ned they Ane eau Cana grey ne a8 8

Pataps he mast peeve,
pressed yma
eteprencrs was the ees
‘st satel etn af

Page 68 of 116

Local Immigrant Entrepreneur Recommendations

“The following recommendations emerged out of in-depth interviews with local (ockvile)
immigrant entrepreneurs. The interview schedule for these interviews can be found in
Appendix A.

‘As informed by te literature, inchuding an extensive review of the best practices toolkits
‘of communities across Canada that examined the attraction, retention, and inclusion of
{immigrants and immigrant entrepreneurs, ix broad areas of questioning were employed
Participant Profile; Personal Considerations (for Immigration; Immigration Process; Services
Business Considerations; and Final Considerations including questioning around socio-
political integration which was highlighted inthe lnerature as a key factor for retention

And demonstzated inclusion by a community. Ths analytical counting ofthe data willbe
presented in an integrated format with che findings from the best practices lnerature thereby
‘making i relevant to the City of Brockville and like communities who ate interested in
‘begining to employ the strategies laid out by participating local immigrant entrepreneurs

Highlight Quality of Life (QOL)

Pethaps the most pervasive, universal sentiment expressed by immigrant entrepreneurs was
‘the need for the City of Brocile to highligh che quality of life and strategic location of
Brockville, These views were expressed variously ae having greater pride, and being mote
vocal, about Brockville and what ichas o offer, a8 well as highlighting the fact that “the

‘est location in all of Canada is Brockvill—you connect to everywhere” (Middle Eastern
Businessman). There wa a distinct sense that Brockville snot on the map and tha greater
cfforts need to be made to pur ton the map. Quality of life (QOL) is an elusive concep. While
residents instinctively know t and enjoy it intimately, defining QOL i dificult. Location

and quality of fe were very closely linked in the participants’ accounts. As Caldwell (2010)
explain, “Quality of life san all-encompassing, broad and yet ambiguous term" (11, emphasis
inthe original) bur can significantly be linked to community cultute and sense of place (56)

In fact, community culture and sense of place is “avery abstract component of community
economic development, albeit an important one” because the “strength of community and
culture produces a sense of pride in the community that not only produces quality of ie,

‘ur allows (groups such as the Francophone community in Hearst, Ontario] to expand
‘economically in the community” (56-57). For Brockull, this means capitalizing onthe oft
"repeated notion by participants that Brockville has “a small own feeling withthe amenities of
big city” (Mr Patel, Indian Businessman}.

Relatedly, many entrepreneurs expressed that Brockville allows for beter ife-work balance.
‘Guru Khosa, co-owner of Tandoori Mint Indian Restaurant in Downtown Brockville,
‘expressed the Balance that can be achieved in Brockville this way, “Brockville is quiee and
eaceful—five minutes to work, ive minutes to home. Our preference was fora small town
nd we got our preference. .Good people, living bythe St. Lawrence, no traffic, quiet family
time. Some things missing, but socialising ance a week helps. What more could you want?
Every family member that visits Brockville and who has seen Brockville ies it”

Another prominent businessperson in Brockville is Mr. Jag Chawla, owner of Apex Logistic,
Inc. (warehouse fice and manufacturing space lasing) who echoes Mr. Khosa’s appraisal of
the City stating,

the fs 4-5 yas, we thought we were going ro back and hen we saw and we liked he
mosphere A god environment a good place o ais the kids, clean a clean water and health
vise we did mach er es pollution. Much easier trie bids in asmall own her. wealreay
lived ere—habt change ands hard ogo back and adjust. fe had gone ack in he ist 0
ears we'd have stayed thee, but in five years, my wf wa doing her eidency, you ge used to
alte and ou lie was aly he clea athe clean water, the goo health system, es)
tome your kid anda god lies wasn the nancial things. Friendly people. Very good
Wesyle.[dont have odie two hows drive to work, so Thave ore tine to myself We have clean
ir, clean ater «god heath system. My wife and tak atrip around the word. When we came
bach, 1said “Pm happy here” Good iste, a healthy fe and a heathy enviroment Theos of
living i very reasonable”

Iris often assumed that immigrants to Canada are always coming fom larger centtes and
‘therefore require the amenities of the larger centres in order to feel ‘at homie.’ The realty for
‘some immigrants co Brockville i that some are actively seeking out quieter, moe balanced
lifestyles and are therefore willing to forgo the amenities of lager centres including larger
populations of people from thei home countries, For Mr. Chala, the lifestyle is made even
‘etter by the fct that there is no commute, che environment is lean, and the cot of living is
reasonable. For Mr. Khosa and his family having come from a small town in India, Brockville
‘was preferential because of ts smallness and quaintness Importantly, Mr. Khosa and his
family immigeated to Brockville due to pre-existing family connections in Brockville which
gives his statement chat everyone in his social network who vst the City likes i increased
femphasis, a ie demonstrates the extent to which the existing connections of immigrant
fentrepreneurs may be moe ripe for attraction efforts than cold leads from embassies or other
‘bureaucratic institutions, As one Statistics Canada report on immigrant’ choice of destination
highlights, existing necworks of family an friends is one ofthe greatest factors for choice of
loeation for incoming immigrants—the other main reason is the prospect of aj.”

Inuerestinly, this reality was somewhat culture-specifi. As discussed previously, hore were
distinct diferences inthe importance of existing tes between those from collecivstculcures
‘versus individualist cultures. Those from Western European individualist cultures noted that
‘either the presence ofan ethnic community nor the presence of existing friends family was

‘ motivatr for choice of destination, Ths assertion by immigrants from Western Europe that
ethnic groups/exsting social networks a not being integral to choice of place, was echoed

by Me. rank Hartmann ofthe Germany Embassy wo stated that these factors were, at bes,
neutral, in the decision-making of Germans wishing to come to Canada fr example. This
pint has implications fr attraction strategies and speaks to the need fr targeted county
specific approaches to attraction, whether trying to attrac primary or secondary migrants,
‘because diferent prospecive/xisting immigrant audiences are loking for diferent things
‘upon arrival to Canada and/or Brockville (eg. Germans are atacted by nature and the overall
“rural” and expansive and appeal while many of those coming from India are looking to
‘connect with friends, family, and larger ethnic social networks upon arrival),

Regardless of motivation, quality of life and sense of place loomed large in the interviews
‘with local immigrant entrepreneurs, The reality ofthis deep connection to place is that local
‘immigrant entrepreneurs ae che best source of advertising fr Brockville and what thas to
offer, An ambassadorial programs has been articulated by the Leeds & Grenville Iamigration
Partnership (LIP) (see Appendix D,

1o States Cra, migart’s ne lesan: ipsa 9 6 A288 en
un Whe ty sare es 200, more ec Mere, pridy nthe bt races iia

Page 69 of 116

‘There or some
cut queer, mare balrced
ing eg the aes
ager cents wctasing
lager population of pone

open utes rated at
resence of ering Hens

egress of motto,
quay fe ad sense
pac lore ge a
ier entrepreneur

Page 70 of 116

“The rationale fora Brockville Cultural Business Ambassador Program (BCBA) i aid out by
the LIP follows

“The BCBA program will enable Ment Ambassidors ospres! the word about the positive
teibues ofthe conumunty, and promote the Cry of Broce smart place to invest

The sy toland immedi reity ta inset oan and make itt out fom th od
Aewih a rcmtedation ret try frm pee
Ambassadors: Your Secret Marketing Weapon. EDAC Whe Paper Seles, June 2009,

Further, the proposal states that the “bones ofa Brockville Cultural Business Ambassador
(@CBA) program are in place, but addtional efforts and attention ould formalize the
program into ane that produces an increased numberof leads being dtected to Economic
Development staff and a corresponding rise of investments inthe community.” The Immigrant
Entrepreneur Attraction initiative takes this proposal one sep further insofar a it provides,

an evidence-hase of support for an inatve lke the Brockville Cultutal Business Ambassador
program. The Cty of Brockville has 2 highly invested, highly successful, and highly mesivated
‘Immigrant entrepreneur community tha is wiling to lp with Brockvill's economic
development initiatives (particulary as evidenced bythe commitment many ofthe participants
‘of tis study have made time and again o City projects and the involvement many have on
‘economic development committees and events), While che development ofthe BCBA program
‘sa multi-year proces, one way to inialize an ambassador program in the more immediate
furure is by identifying and publicizing on the City of Brockville’ website those ambassadors
‘who are ready and willing to stare assisting with attraction. The London- Middlesex Immigrant
Employment Council (LMIEC) has a sucessful immigrant mentorship progeams that bring
“together internationally trained individuals with local mentors in ther field to gain a better
‘understanding ofthe regional jb marker establish valuable netorking contacts; and learn
‘more about sector specific language and professional practice in Canada." Other communities
have more entrepreneurial-focused immigrant mentorship programs tha are smaller-scale
and highlight specific entrepreneurs on the municipal website tha allows interested parties to
Contact mentors directly and more informally va email” While ther isa significa ange in
‘mentorship programs, they do stand as a best practice fr municipal engagement in support
services and can at asa cornerstone of attraction if there is an ambassadorial component.

EY RECOMMENDATIO

= Highlight the quality of life in Brockvilevia® Brockville Cultural Ambassador Program
such a the pilot program forwarded by the Leeds & Gremil Immigration Partnership,

» The Cy of Brockle requires focused, targeted, and culturally-specite attraction
programs that can be informed by knomledge gained trom existing immigrant
communities and via the sentiments of exiting immigrant entrepreneurs as included in
this toot and associate data that highlight the quality of lie as a specific attractor
and retainer of immigrants tothe community.

12 Fer ante el se The Mertaing Pato» pgm huge Teanga gant Empoet
Casein nusterenarogarnantpconnenaingnertatsaghs

Employment opportunities

‘Another key recommendation from Brockvill’s immigrant entepreneur community included
‘the need for more employment opportunities andthe attraction of companies ro employ
people. This is related ro he reality stated above thatthe choice of destination for immigrants,
whether they are migrating from their hme country or another province/ety within Canada,
{is the avallably, or possibility of employment opportunity.

‘As stated atthe outset ofthis section, many immigrant entrepreneurs “found” themselves in
Brockville rather than choosing it (although some chose Brockville very specifally because
‘ofthe beauty, quality of ie, and opportunity, or described themselves 25 “ending up in
Brockville” fora variety of reasons, eg. existing family/friends. Some business owners ike
‘Tan Masong, co-owner of Nakhon Thai Restaurant in Downown Brockville (chat has another
location in Kemptville, Ontario), simply asked the question: "What can the City do to create
more jobs?” while others, like Trang Le of Trang Le Salon in Downtown Brockville, spoke
tothe hic her community had taken asthe tesult of what she saw as dwindling opportunity:
“There used tobe more Viemamese people in Brockville—a lot have lft because of lack of
‘opportunity—there's nothing for their kids” Mrs. Le explained that Brockville could have
"etained the Vietnamese fanilies she knew who let fr Toronto or Montreal if there were
_more jobs, if they had noc had to leave in search of opportunity. She went on to say tht the
presence of wellpaying, permanent obs ina community is essential forthe creation of new
‘businesses because when the business fluctuate, ast inevitably wil, young families are okay
‘because there is atleast one sable income. An Indian Businessman in business for many years
in Brockville echoed these sentiments by stating thatthe biggest thing Brockville needs to do
{is to “bring some sor of jb creation, employment situation hee so tha creates some jobs £0
‘that people can star to enjoy themselves and tht will also turn into more stoes downtown.”
Impoctandly, and related to Mrs L's comments, ob opportunities create wealth and improve
‘the situation of business owners because Brockvilians then have money to spend on existing
businesses according to Mr. Khosa, He states, "We need to create job opportunities. To bring
businesses in, we need City support. We need peopl ro stay here. If everyone s healthy and
wealthy here, we wll grow. Bu people ned good jabs tobe healthy and wealthy.” Finally,

1 Businessman of Middle Eastern descent stated simply that what Brockville needs are
“Companies ro employ people. Thief what can be improved about the area. We should start,
from her:

‘While the recommendations by local immigrant entrepreneurs are made quite clear here,
actracting large industry has become difficult for most of rural Canada as the global
‘marketplace remains too competitive for Canada to compete inthis kind of attraction and
retention in certain sectors. The shift tothe stration of individuals from the attraction of

large industzy comes from the global economic realities of offshoring and the inability ofthe
(Canadian matkee to compere in some key sectors. The days of large industry as main local
employer and economy driver ae arguably ver.

‘The Cty of Brockulle has recognized this for some ime and has engaged strategic initiatives
to compete for creative class talent by way of immigrant attraction strategies. In its publication
‘Benchmarking the Creative Economy in Rural Ontario published in 2012, the Martin Prosperity
Institute recommended that Brockville focus on the “opportunity presented by much higher
scores on diversity indicators, relative to other rural areas. Moreover, Brockville should focus
‘on building immigrant attraction strategies almed at immigrants in nearby regions” (Martin
Prosperity Insitute, 2012 10). The City implemented this recommendation and se about
capitalizing on its diversity indicators and status as a creative economy by integrating key
attraction stateges ino the overall economic strategic dtection for the City. nxmigration
attraction was outlined asa key strategic action fr municipal services and government

Page 71 of 116

2 hay recommendation
tren Brosh inant
ceepene commun,
cateyment appctaies
camaares oem pepe

Bring soe sto
eatin enploynent

sae jabs tha people cat
St en thelr

‘sporti To ing
suppor. Weed peope
toatoyhere. erapone it
i ge But pope reed
geo fo be Peay and

Companies ey pope
"i wha can be improve

Page 72 of 116

relationships inthe 2015 Brockville Economic Development Strategie Directions Update
‘Where the recommendations ofthe local immigrant enttepreneur community and the strategic
economic development activities ofthe City of Brockville dovetails through the atraction of
foreign direct investment (FDI).

In speaking o some economic development actors inthe region, there i some apprehension
associated with FDI due to local business ventures that have either filed or have failed

‘to materialize in good time. The concern, rom one source, is that foreign investors have

‘po real stake in the community, are hard to connect with or contact, and are ultimately

‘ot accountable when things fil to materialize or succeed. This apprehension, whether a
‘widespread realty regionally or the thoughts of afew, as implications for the search for
‘lobal investments In alton, che Mayor of Augusta Township, Doug Malanka, a key
Invested regional actor in immigration attraction efforts, discussed a company that was
considering setting up in Augusta Township but che potential investment feel chrough in

part due to te lack of infrastructure ro support an international company and the needs of
its ivestors. Specifically, there was concern over how the owner and his family would be
‘welcomed and included in the community. This point was also brought up by United Counties
of Leeds & Grenville’ Economic Development Director Ann Weir, spciialy the reality
‘thatthe infrastructure is not in place oe attracting immigrants or FDI whee services

And amenities for immigrants do not exist. This isan interesting and oft cited eealiy for
small communities loking to attactimmigeantsthe chicken and eg situation, that is,

‘the question of whether attraction should begin before servces/infastrucure is in place oF
should it await services/infrasructue. The best practices around attraction and retention
tellus that services are needed, but whats more important is a welcoming ad inclusive
‘community nore on this in the Overall Recommendations section). For now, n keeping
‘with recommendations made so fr, cere may be hope for foreign direct investment and
traction initiatives in Brockville that ae eargeted and rely on the expetise and contacts of
‘those immigrant entrepreneurs who currently exist i the community. Again, cold leads are
less atractive and potentially beneficial for a small cy like Brockville, while warm leads fom
existing residents are much more hopeful

Rural communities in Manitoba, such as the enciting case study offered by The City of
‘Winkler, provide promising examples of boosting newcomer rates via pre-existing connections
With existing Russian-German, German, and Kanadier- Mennonites. Intated by The City of
‘Winkler and the District Chamber of Commerce, and with the help ofan agreement between
‘the province andthe federal government, the "Winkler Initiative” began in 1997 as a response
tw the community's evolving human resource needs. During the five year period spanning
1999-2004 Winkler welcomed 1832 immigrants through the Provincial Nominee Program

104 small centre of only 9000 at tha time. According fo the Mayor of Winkle, the arial of
‘newcomers was remarkably smooth and that "this was the result of intentional planning: they
‘were very careful ro match newcomers tothe needs ofthe community, so that they found work
and formed new friends quickly. Also, newcomers were predominantly German Mennonites
‘which was a match tothe broader Winkler community in terms of faith and culture">
‘Winkler is now Manitoba's sixth largest city (as of 201), with a population currenly
estimated at 12,000, and the second fast growing cty out of nine inthe province. According
‘to Manitoba's Rural Development Institute,

‘Winkler serves as an encouraging example of what maybe achieved in a rra immigration
he province when thee exist close cllaboration between business, ty offical


Page 73 of 116

nd Manitoba Labour and Immigration, Due to the ate’ predominant religious, uur,
linguistic and economic elements, remains appropriate ro ask how this particular experience
say or may ot be reproduced elsenher inthe province. A widening ofthe immigration
races should affect more of dhe surrounding region ad provide more lessons sil. The
‘Winkler example stresses the importance fr stakeholder preparation, interaction and eo
operation, aswell as apropate supports and serves far the immigrant population (Rural
‘eevelopenent Institute Working Paper, 2005)

‘While the Winkler Inkiatve id no exprestly use the contacts and connections ofthe exising EE
Immigrant commun, kd capitalize onthe realy ofthe existing immigrantsetnle OUP pecan many
ties and operaconlied the provincia nominee program target those who would adit rete
sis to negate ino the existing community (hereby cing down onsetlement ees, Sata ma
tes est nigt
cetepeces tat
fhe aby of een
cetony wth ese
caterers ert oe
Brecher hee

Again, the City of Brockville would ned to articulate a lear vision for an immigration
“rategy and who it will target. While immigrant enttepreneure ate an excellent place to sta,
an overall population strategy that articulates the focused ataction of people fom specific
countries, who will hve an easier ime finding a community of support hee, is one wayt0
proceed, However, i should be noted that ethnic communities and individual iumigrants
‘should not be made solely responsible forthe inclusion of newcomers into the community
Expanded settlement and inclusion services are necessary and should be supported and/or
initiated through a collaborative effort by both the City of Brockville and existing community
‘groups working in these areas.

(Overall, Winkler presents an interesting case study but began with a differen problem to
Brockville’ Winkler needed people to fil jobs whereas Brockville needs people to create
jobs, The sentiment expressed by che community of existing immigrant entrepreneurs is that
Brockville needs employment opportunties—for spouses of immigrant entrepreneurs who
‘come and for esdents in general so that incoming and exstng immigrant entrepreneuts
have a community of customers, Without this, immigrants who wish to start businesses will
‘themselves need tobe connected to “people with alot of funding” (Mr. Chawla). I Brockville
{is looking to artract immigrant entreprencurs tothe area, existing immigrant entrepreneurs
feel that the City mast demonstrate the viability of the existing economy, whether those
entrepreneurs want to live in Brockville, expand here or invest here

KEY RECON

» The City must address the overall employment situation n oder to aliract nem
residents from ether thee home countries, o trom ferent part of Canada, While
this isa broad-based recommendation with no specific action attached—and of
cours, ctions associated with it that ae already occuring atthe municipal evel
itis important that it is highighted as an identified need bythe existing immigrant
entrepreneur community.

» The Cy of Brockilecan create a population strategy that includes the attraction
cof immigrant entrepreneurs based on cannecions wih the existing immigrant
communities of Brockile

IENDATIONS,

trom aces Canad, suppats
te serves mt bein lace
hem, ae ep then ste

To ataet pope
pride rari assistance

‘ong nniog ol
usinss— the Cy needs 2

ere ole ice
a al he ung
tse, ne charge
re open ooo —you
ew ess et ew ond
especialy yu artigo

Page 74 of 116

City support for businesses (especially small business)
and openness to innovation

Closely ted to conversations about employment opportunities were conversations about
‘how the City can support existing and new businesses. As one Indian businessman put

in, "To attract people to Brockville, they need to provide, apart from everything ese we've
‘tid but what about the finances? Whoever is responsibie, they should provide financial
assatanceavalable if chey want to [us to] make a decision to bring thet [business] to
Brockville. Any business to come in anywhere, small or big, i starts with money. How

can Brockville, s a City, help that business to initialize and survive?" This was an often
‘epeated sentiment by local immigrant entrepreneurs. This conversation was often explicitly
linked to conversations about openness and innovation, For example, Mr. Khosa states, "We
Ihave tobe open to new things, come up with new ideas. We need to create job opportunites
‘we need to Bring businesses in” and for this, City support was explicity cited asa need. A
downtown business owner is frank in his assessment ofthe way the City of Brockville must
‘operate in order to support businesses attract businesses, and shake up its way of operating
“There is too much bureaucracy a City Hall—chere ae od, stale ideas—you can smell tin
‘the building. Brockville has to hae the guts todo it, make change, innovate. Be alittle more
tock and rll—be excited, don't be scared. The City has tobe more open innovation—you
‘can’t be conservative and successful in business new ideas get new blood, especialy if

you are trying to attract new businesses.” Immigrants, especially immigrant entrepreneurs,
are known tobe highly innovative, and itis this innovation and associated vsk-aking, that
leads to success for many.

‘A 2010 repore by the Conference Board of Canada (CBOC) chat evaluates the extent to which
‘migrants are contributing to innovation in Canada explain chat “immigrants ace making
‘Canada more innovative" (Conference Board of Canada, 2010: i). The report goes onto state
‘that productiviey and innovation ae critical for economic development (ibid i), and that
‘openness 10 new experiences i critical for both immigration and innovation (8). ln fact, the
“ability to challenge established views is essential for innovation, People fom different paces
‘who have different experiences bring diverse perspectives toan issue” (bid). This statement
‘ould not be more true fr local immigrant entrepreneurs who, based on the inerview data,
‘want to see the City of Brockville innovate along with them. Innovative achievements in

‘the arts, in research and technology, business, and in economic development do not happen
Jina vacuum, The CROC suggests tac in all cases of innovation, there Is "some form of
reciprocal relationship involved. Government institutions, businesses, and cites alike all
Ihave the opportunity 1o be instrumental in fostering immigrant alent—by doing s, they
also increase their own competitiveness and performance” (bid. 8). Some local immigrant
fentrepreneurs contrasted the City with other local regions where they also operate and fel
‘more support and openness; for example, Ms. Masong of Nakhon Thal Restaurant. Nakhon
‘Thai has locaton in Kemprville, Onario as well which she explains as a more attractive
‘option for her business. In Kempruile, Ms. Masong talks about union, a more united
‘community and business climate. The business is more steady in Kempville and she feels
‘that they (ehe municipality) really wants them therein the community. She explained that
‘they put alot of money (over $100,000 invested) in te historic building that they moved into
{in Downtown Brockville but that they ran into problems withthe City (which did help with
improvements tothe facade). Former tenants around her let, she explained, because they had
‘uouble with the City, 0 they moved onto Kingston because they “felt no suppor to bring
Brockville up" Ifthe City was more helpful, according to Ms. Masong, fom the point of
view ofan immigrant running a small busiess—the City needs to be more helpful in order
for them to want to invest hee. She went on to explain chat “immigrants ate hard-working
‘people—'m working 12-14 hours aday-—people work ard and pay taxi will bring the City
‘up Ifthe City did more guiding and made i easier to operate, helped with the process of,


Page 75 of 116

Household Population by Immigration Status
Brockuille, Ontario, 2014

20 2014, here re
23210 pelen Goce

‘business establishment—especially with language and paperwork" would have struggled
‘without my husband,” then Brockville would be more atractive to invest in. According to
1s. Masong, “the City needs ro unite and talk about things more with smal business and
advertise” These sentiments were echoed by both owners of The Works, Cor Schrevers and
‘Monique van Someren, who suggested that Brockville needs to take more risks and be more
daring ifit wants to be on the radar.

For the most pat, small busines in Brockville, partcul
to feel heard and incladed in decision-making that affects thei businesses and thee Futures.
‘They are asking thatthe City takes necessary risks to put them on the map eg. Mr. Scheuers
and Ms, van Someren ate planning a 2017 festival chat pushes the boundaries of Brockville
‘reputation as retirement town) and they want feel more unity nd cohesion with the Cty
and with other businesses in an effort, as Me. Masong points us, “bring Brockville up” and
to make it distinet from other eural areas.

‘Beyond this, there was a common sentiment expressed by all local immigrant entrepreneurs
‘that they had robe very self-sufclnt and resourceful because ofthe lack of services and
support that exist generally in Brockville. I cannot be overstated that if community wants
‘oattract new residents from various pats ofthe world and from across Canada, supports and
services must be i place to serve them, to welcome them, and to help them sete as quickly
4s posible, While immigrant entrepreneurs are often well-positioned financially and in terms
‘of English-language ability, this does not account forthe many immigrant entrepreneurs who
‘become entrepreneurs based on the lack of availability of jobs and/or opportunities—that is,
by deft, An immigrant service infrastructure is necessary and is arequited pat of any
inchsve community


Page 76 of 116

‘Addressing systemic racism and discrimination, valuing diversity

(Canada was an overwhelming choice over the United States for many local immigrant
entrepreneurs because they perceived Canada as much more welcoming, multicultural
land diverse. That sai, it was evidene cough the interview process that local immigrant
‘entrepreneurs have to negotiate racism and/or discrimination that exists a a systemic
(UII communicy evel. For example, one businesswoman was concerned tha telling people her
place of birth and her ethnicity would negatively impact her business and so takes extra
recaution ro conceal te fact that she isan immigrant. Some local immigrant entrepreneuts
experience witness, or perceive there oe active racism and discrimination inthe iy.
For example, oe businesswoman explains, “People ae in separate clases (in Brockville)
In Brockville, the rich stay withthe rch. There is a rich and there ea poor [communiy].”
In addition, this local entepreneur suggested that her staff is sometimes eeated poorly as
service wotkers with people looking down their nose a them.” A numberof local immigeane
entrepreneurs discussed the need robe welcoming, multicultural and diverse asa City. While
few ited direct examples of racism and discrimination from experience, and afew suggested
‘that being an immigrane worked in their favour as they stood ou ina positive way, twas
‘evident through the data that many immigrants to Brockville have to work very ard to
Iegrate and that many, especially visible minority immigrants, tend to socialize primarily
‘within their own ethnic group i possible

sein though the
meng entgreneis nave
to negli ra aan

‘As mentioned previously, integration puts a sigaificane onus onthe individual who has
‘immigrated ro adapt ro the community they mover, bu inclusion asa concept anda practice
asks that there is more of a reciprocal relationship between the community andthe individual
Inclusion as commitment ofthe community means that there are proactive efforts made

‘to support newcomers and that supports and services exist for them, Local immigrant
entrepreneurs were very mixed when it came tothe question of whether or not the City of
Brockville was ready to welcome more people like them tothe community. Many sid no and
‘many qualified their answers. For example, here i an extended answer to thi question by a
leeal businesswoman:

Haye some ein integration without looking down. f you hav immigans coming into town.
aso be done ina realy respec wy and understanding that fe wen toa new county, the's
just here's how were doing things here, na that its beter, but here ishow weave dong that I's
‘not eter i's just Being avare so that when youre going into hisineracion, especial ifyouare
ying to come am employee, that’s especialy where’ dif. think ou have ono wa for
people to come ta you but you have tty oid the people. Was thee an organized stractre 10
‘welcome me? No. was kind of floundering at fet. have ali bit mre ofa challenge because
ny buss pare goto ick. 1m having more ofa arrival this year when Tm actualy able to
enter he comma vers running my busines and Being caregiver son going to answer tha
‘ueton that way and since ve ben able o eter the community andb presen and met pope,
{ts ben fabs. People have been friendly and warm. Neighbours re friendly. {think
lepend who you mest and tha’ somthing that an outreach program ak hlp with and maybe
instead of eying neers or immigrants, maybe they can sy “are you ne to Broce Here
some service” and then apart of ifthe happen ae new migrant or aon Ht doesn’t
‘mater whee someone’ coming guess, they just are newt Brac. So wheter you've new
{from Montreal or ne from another county, you may ned some ofthe services andthe as part
of tha package fs very inclusive withou saying are you diferent. Saying anyone who is new
{to Broce and then in there.might want more speci, argeed help. Either language stuf.
which didn’ nee, some pple might and they might have the investment or the nosed oF
‘the business know-how, Butte ned some language stu Or hey nee same, dan bx.
bridge. The person esa and trat-wothy and good lt me introduce out them. networking
liison, perhaps? An introduction wher you dont have to introduce youself as Mohammad,


from Tia. Whereas somebody whois alendy nthe community, let me introduc you to 0
‘and, they've gtand then you can bridge tat. Youre safe. People need to know you're safe
heres Thats avery bg thing fr Canadians... The act that i's low to many centres means that
Team go into any cy centre and come ack home, There's loo alana activities going on arond
ere adm apartofthowe, making sre that classe music and Toronto Symphony Orchestra come
teres Having those cultura opportunites going on in Brckvl the are things ha wil tan,
people here I think when pope look to move to apace, inigrant ono, they are loking fr these
thing. They oking for diversity and cultural vente 'm prt ofthe concer association and
‘tha’ my volunter work 00 Alf thee hinge shoul’ Be underestimated because hey tract
people ere. You no just moving ora oh, you moving for aise andi'ssuck a beautiful
place These xtra cultural things ae very meaning for peoples dw’ think would move

(Other entrepreneurs expressed that people have ro travel fr food, services, and places of
‘worship. In these ways, Brockville does not “have ial” but local immigrant entrepreneurs
‘work very hard t bring cultural diversity and more social events that make the community
‘more inclusive, "safe" and inviting as this business woman mentions. A network liison, 2
person who would help newcomers meet people and network, ian interesting proposal and
could work within a framework of both acessble immigrant services (he one stop shop) and
Jnchsion asa community goal It is importane ro note that local immigrant enteepreneuts
already mentor other immigrants and this informal network of connections and opportunites
could easly be formalized with the help ofthe City and incrested community organizations

‘Overall, the entrepreneurs interviewed for this study emphasized the need for education
around the importance of diversity and inclusion, Eric van Rijsjk owner of Bodega Wines,

stated simply, "We need to educate people here about the value of diversity diversity creates
traction” Similarly, Val Kines, former osener ofthe Second Cup, suggested that Brockville
‘needs to “welcome people and tobe a welcoming community.”

‘CONCLUSIONS
CREATE A BETTER INFRASTRUCTURE OF SUPPORT

“The local immigrant entrepreneurs interviewed fortis study have a deep investment
in the success and flourishing of not ony the Brockville business community but of
‘the City of Brock self Many characterized Brockile 3s home and the majority
could not see themselves ling elsewhere, Fortunately, noone had plans to move

Cr close businesses. Local immigrant entrepreneurs male up an invaluable part of
Brochille Downtown coe in particular, and business community in general. From the
insights provided and how they inform the overall recommendations ofthis took,
itis apparent that local immigrant entrepreneurs have had tobe resourceful, elt
‘elian,rak taking, and innovative to make the successful businesses they have today,
‘Their invaluable contribution means thatthe City of Brockle can create a better
infrastructre of support for newcomers from these insights and prove more than
welcome by becoming a fully inclusive community.

Page 77 of 116

Norway
Pipi
Turkey

Page 78 of 116

PART 4
ATTRACTION STRATEGIES

Embassy and Ethnic Chambers of Commerce Outcomes

Embassy Outcomes and Ethnic Chambers of Commerce/Business Assocation Outcomes are
resented in two separate sections in what follows

Embassy Outcomes

‘A key pat of the Immigran Entrepreneur Attraction project a it was intially envisioned
‘was bridge-building between che City of Brockville and nearby Ottaw-area embassies. As
‘twas written in the grant proposal for the project, "Particular embassies and associations
chosen willbe based on feedback gleaned from Brockuile immigrant entrepreneurs, existing
City of Brockville connections building on past experiences with the Chinese and Norwegian
delegations, and posible strategies obtained from research with similarsized communities,
‘Conduct interviews to seek opportunities to involve staff fom the embassies and ethnic
associations in promoting Brockville as an optimal place for immigrant entrepreneuts to start
| busines.” This innovative approach to entepreneural immigrant attraction by & municipal
‘government has not been attempted previously and resulted in ineresting and pertinent
Insights and recommendations.

entity key embassies to approach was nt dificult. According tothe National Working
‘Group on Small Centre Strategies (NWGSCS) (2007) wi cite Statistics Canada data and
‘ends, the “single most significant reaon an immigrant chooses anew ome isthe presence

of relatives or fiends who have already settled there" (34). Existing communities therefore
Influence the decision-making of primary migrants those migrants who are looking to relocate
fiom their country of origin to countries they have Wentifed as desirable. For Brockville, this
‘means thatthe cultivation of ties that exist mong the existing immigrant populations in the
(City and their home countries are the clearest opportunites pursue when considering what
countries to “court” when it comes 1 attracting new residents. The soca, ethnic, and business
ties need not be immediate ro facilitate interest as explained by the NWGSCS, but rather it may
’be “the location of family friends, or linguistc/ethic community... that determines how one
selct their fst Canadian home” (ibid. 3). For this reason, the embasies with some ofthe
largest existing populations in Brockville were selected for approach.

‘Some of these countries represent much higher levels of existing immigran residents
(Netherlands, Vietnam and India for example), while countries like Turkey and France
‘represent fewer residencs as outlined in the Statistics Canada National Household Survey of
2011 for Brockville and area. Regardless of absolute numbers, these countries represent the
‘ethnic communities that exist in Brockville and somte even represent growing numbers of
‘ew residents to Brockville (eg Turkey). China and Norway are two countries thatthe Cty
‘of Brockville has already-esablished relationships with va diplomatic (Norway = Tall Ships
Festival) and commercial expansion ofa Chinese infant frmula company ino Brockville)
‘connections and made the list of embassies ro approach for these pre-existing bonds.

‘As outlined inthe above quote from the grant proposal, the interviews with local immigeant
‘entrepreneurs were partially intended to reveal connections to Otawa-area embassies and
links to ethnic business oxpanizacions. Interestingly ll ofthe local immigrant entrepreneurs
tha no existing relationships to either ofthese groups. The reasons fr this reality are very

straightforward: Local immigrane entrepreneurs experienced engagement with both the
‘embassies in their home counties, and with their Canadian counterparts, as highly bureaucratic
land impersonal and did noc have any ongoing relationship with these institutions beyond the
‘immigration process. Many founded their own ethnic business associations either formally oF
informally and while afew local immigrant entrepreneurs relied on pre-existing (more generic)
‘business associations in Brockville, many did not. Nonetheless, the ethnic business associations
chosen fr contact correlated withthe embassies that were approsched, this is fr every
‘country’ embassy tht was contacted, a least one corresponding ethnic business association
‘was comacted and evry ethnic Chamber of Commerce fram each country was contacted,

This exercise bore fut although ie was not always easy to teach. After the inital contact
‘with all 12 embassies, only two got back immediately: Turkey and Germany-—che outcomes
‘ofthese two very fultful mestings are detailed below. After repeated requests for interviews
‘with the other 10 embassies, contact with the Trade Commissioner Service, abanch of Global
Alfiairs Canada, was established fr input. This contact resulted in invaluable information in
terms ofthe inner workings of embassies, particularly the fact that embassies and municipal
‘governments have lite experience working together. Here is a summary analysis of what
Information was gained via Global Affairs (including recommendations)

+ Brockville must determine whether it would ideally like to pursue primary
‘immigrants, chose immigrants who come directly from their home country/
country of origin, or secondary migrants, those immigrants who have already come
from their home country and find themselves in large(?) urban centres who may want
to relocate to smaller centres, Primary migrant attaction would require attraction from
source countries and would necessitate the full immigration process (which can take
at least a coupe of years to process) and be facilitated by Citizenship and Immigration
‘Canad. Secondary migrant attraction would be more expeditious because those
Individual already liven Canada in other parts of Ontario and, depending on reach
“other parts of Canada and would only require attraction efforts within the province or
‘county and no immigration process is required These realities are only important ifthe
‘immigrant entrepreneur wishes to relocate. Acrating foreign direct investment requires
a dferene se of attraction efforts and can be facilated via Global Affairs Canada
‘which san entity meant ro expedite business to Canada. In shot, which immigrancs
oes Brockville want ro focus on? Global Affairs will help us on the busines end, while
Immigetion, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) helps facilitate, Does Brockville
have the capacity and wil to attract boch che individual entrepreneur and the foreign
Investor? If so, diferent strategies and different arms of government need consulting,
engaging and potential lobbying

+ Inselation tothe above, the IRCC route—attracting new immigrants to come
individually—is much more labour and time intensive. Global Afars is much more
‘business-frendly—that i, ifthe person interested in investing in Canada has a business
‘they want to stator expand in Canada, then Global Affairs gets involved and supports

+ Foreign investment leads thatthe Trade Commissioner Service receives get
filtered by industry, then province; then itis upto the municipal governments to
‘make theie pitch and attract ditectly. This means that knowledge about Brockvil’s
‘excellence and capacity in certain fields needs to be known broadly tthe provincial
level so that leads can be filtered down through each level of government. Te foreign
{investor also often has an idea about which province they wish to work within through
knowledge ofthe country and what i as o offer. This is whee a pervasive online
presence is necessary to ensue Brockville isnot overlooked when investors are
Considering locations for expansion investment opportunity.

Page 79 of 116

Page 80 of 116

‘+ Importantly, the Trade Commissioner Service, asa subsection of Global Affairs,
‘wants to attract greenfield (new) businesses and expansion (existing) businesses
‘because those will benefit Canada most. Global Affairs only operates a the business
level and only promotes Canada generally and based on where industries exist and
‘where they have knowledge ofthese opportunites existing (wind turbine they
‘would talk ro the lead about to these three provinces andthe lead would decide and then
‘be handed over to that provincial government's ministry of economic development and
‘then to the cities/municipalities from there),

+ In general, embassies may be the wrong institutions to talk to for business
development goals as they promote their own home country businesses and
{industries /foreign investments both in Canada and abroad. For business development
‘goals, Global Afuts as an arm of government x more busines-riendly and will support
‘municipal in economic development ventures with foreign investors

+ Overall, recommendation was made by Global Affairs, Trade Commissioner
Service that embassies overall were a limited and unlikely route from this kind
‘of immigeant/business attraction. In addition, the recommendation was against
‘going the immigration route because of how lengthy the process is overall. A
‘ey recommendation cha was followed up on was to approach immigration lawyers,
and the regulatory body cae governs chem, o discover trends and to gain insight into
‘the immigration process overall, This tecommendation was reflected bythe interview
data which suggested thatthe lawyers know a great deal about navigating the process
‘of immigration and foreign investments and may be an excellent resource to provide
lirection and insight. However, no immigration lawyers, nor the regulatory body,
‘contacted fr this projec responded 1 requests fr interviews. This lack of response
des not mean, however, that a follow up study should not look into he insights that
‘could be gained from investigating the immigration process through these suggested
venues. Irs important ro keepin mind that iamigration policy sa shifting landscape
land attempts onal it doin” by understanding the processes that lawyers undertake to
facilitate people's entrance into the county is unlikely and perhaps ill-advised in terms
oflimited time and salfing resources

KEY RECOMMENDATIO

= Identity the kind ofentrepreneufinvestment the Cty of Groce woud ike to attract
land then establish an ideal methad of atracton withthe pssible help ofan arm of
government, not embassylambassadoial hep, whichis prepared and equipped to help
facitate the City's pale

= Determine the feasibility and desirability of attracting bot freign direct investment
andlor individual entrepreneurs. Answering the question: What model of immigrant
attraction isthe Gty of Brockile best suited to pursuing—foreign direct investment,
entrepreneurial immigrant resident attraction, or bth?

Based on recommendations from Glabal Aft, the City of Brockville may be ina better
position to compete globally for foreign investmene through greater promotion of Brockill’s
‘business climate a provincial and federal levels of government. This rout ie not mutually
‘exclusive from attracting entrepreneurial immigrants via the immigration process but
Brockville may benef most from a streamlined and focused approach ro the broad category of|
“immigraneateaction.” I can be argued that based on the success of Prince Edward County's
(PEC) resident attraction (oot specifically immigrant attraction) va tourism approach is what

Brockville is best suited for because t negates the conversion about working with either Global
Afats or Citizenship and Immigration atthe federal level, PEC focuses on attracting from
‘the Greater Toronto Area (GTA) and has successfully bult its flourishing community via in-
‘migration strategies

Specific Embassy Outcomes/Recommendations
‘The Republic of Turkey, Ministry of Foreign Affairs

‘As mentioned above, the Turkish and German embassies were quick to respond ta requests
for interviews and provided invaluable recommendations pursuant tothe City of Brockville’s
‘overall goals. In this section, the information generously provided by Counsellor Mummar
Hakan Cengiz ofthe Turkish Embassy in Oxtawa is recounted below.

[Mr, Cengiz provided a great del of invaluable information about Turkish immigration and
Jnvestment to Canada, Asa smal embassy, they do sometimes field questions from companies
Joking to invest in Canada, Interest in investment in Canada is increasing because Tukey
thas been troubled economically recently ue to the political instability and violence in the
‘countries they border with—Sjria and lrg. Turkish companies are therefore looking to
‘expand their trade relations specifically in North and South America and so the embassy
Increasingly getting calls fom companies that want to inves in specific part of Canada. For
‘example, a Turkish solar energy company i Joking fora good place to setup shop in Ontario
and Me. Cengiz mentioned that i Brockville offers enticing subsidies, tax breaks, and has
_ilabe/approprate land, i could be an attractive option fr this company. This lead was
followed up on by City of Brockville saff and will hopefully result in an ongoing celatonship
‘with Turkey and its businesses,

“The Turkish embassy i unique in che fact hate does eld call from Turkish businesses and
{is willing co do the groundwork fr these companies with Canadian municipalities. Depending
‘on the size, scale, and mandate, embassies can do and ofcourse do a great deal more than
‘engage in diplomatic relations with the countries they are housed in. This does no however
‘mean, as mentioned above, thatthe majority of embassies are responsive ro working with local
‘municipalities (as indicated by the lack of uptake by the majority of embassies contacted). This
‘contact with the Turkish Embassy in Orewa dd result in a viable lead fr the City of Brockville,
‘but it was a one-off” inthis case and may or may not result in anything concrete. This reality
leads to information provided by Mr. Frank Hartmann ofthe German Embassy in Ora

Embassy and Consulates General of the Federal Republic of Germany in Canada

(Mr, Frank Hartmann ofthe Culeure and Communication Department atthe Embassy ofthe
Federal Republi of Germany in Otawa quickly responded to my request to mest and discuss
‘opportunities fr bridge building between the embassy and the ity of Brockville. Inthe
‘beginning, Me. Hartmann was curious about the projec and intetesedin expressing that this is
‘no someting that the embassy generally does as their mandate, as outlined by Global Affairs
above, i about promoting German business in Canada and not vce versa. Mr. Hartmann
recommended that connecting with the Canadian embassy in Berlin may be mot in line with
‘the goals of the project so that they may promote what Brockville has to offer Germany ae an
investment or settlement destination. This recommendation ie rpe fr fllow-up.

‘Mr. Hartmann began our conversation by acknowledging tha, while existing immigrant

‘communities may be attractive for some countris/ethnie groups, Germans did noc ind this a
‘magnet. confirmed this statement ata ater date with a recent Dut immigran, mare out of

Page 81 of 116

Connecting wit the
an be colaborave my be

lobe, German aa the
ath ae aking aie
sande open spaces 26

Page 82 of 116

‘curiosity than academic rigour, ad she confirmed chat this was also the case for her and her
partnerthe existence of ether Dutch people in che aea was nota consideration although it
‘was nce to have people who knew about and had experienced her home country. have since
‘uncovered thar those who talked about existing communities, and who have relied on them
‘mot for settlement and integration purpose, come from cllecivst cultures rather than
individualist cultures such as Germany and the Netherlands, Collecivst cultures tend t0
briortize the group over the individual while individualist cultures tend toward the oppose.
‘This isan interesting social psychological element eo attraction efforts that can be used based
‘on who the City of Brockville i artempring to attrac, inorder total efforts to appropriate
audiences.

For Germans, Mr. Hartmann suggests, coming to Canada isan adventute and “lifestyle
choice” as opportunities exist in Germany to become employed (the economy in Germany

is doing very well). Germans ace very self-sufficient and integrate very well accrding to Mr.
Hartmann and often lose their German language very quickly due to this ease of integration.
“The majority of Germans coming are young people (between 18-34) who are on an educational
visa fora year and young families who are looking for new opportunities for lifestyle. Germans
‘who do come ae highly skilled professionals who are degre holders inthe technical fields

Jn manufacturing science (engineering) According to Mr. Hartmann, "Canada does not

make ctedencal transfer very easy and this isa big barrie.” Some key recommendations Mr
HHarcmann has for atracting Germans include advertising the natural beauty ofthe area and
rometing educational opportunities, as they ae very important considerations, roximicyt0
ports (the ease of recuring to Germany), and cultural ie (rt galleries, museums) ae also
Important. Having a high-level person that would help walk interested Germans through the
‘immigration procese— similar to Quebec's model of having people “hold your hand through
‘the whole process” through lve chats and other supports—sas also indicated. A very focused
attraction approach, targeting and appealing toa specific group by someone in economic
{evelopment who spoke German was another key recommendation that Mr. Hartmann made
Iris important ro note tha despite these recommendations, Mr. Hartmann was clear that most
Germans are not interested in leaving their country and only a minority lave. However, this
‘minority can be substantial for Canada because ofthe population difference: Germany has 80
zillion people ands growing.

‘Some key action items for Brockville chat Me. Hartmann recommended included:

+ Try attract toutst groups by bus—that is, lobby large bus tour operators ro top in
Brockville on the Montrea-Torontoroutes—and ceate German-frendly packages

“+ Brand in such away that turism and immigration are connected

+ Promote that children canbe educate in both French and English because of Germany's
‘order with France and asociaed interest in the language

‘Overall, Mr. Hartmann suggested that for Germans, there has tobe a strong emotional
‘connection to place inorder to draw them ro Canada and to Brockville. This sentiment was
"eflected in my interviews with local immigrant entrepreneuts from the Netherlands, roof
‘whom have recently become Brockville residents aftr visiting as tourists

‘Where foreign direct investment is concerned, Mr. Hartmann detailed that Misisauga
{is the German-Canadian hub of business and fet chat with the long-established business
relationship major German companies have there, there would be litle opportunity forthe
City of Brockville to atrac thei investment. This does not mean that major star-ups could
‘ot be the result of individual entrepreneurial immigrant attraction as Mr. Hartmann cited the

Page 83 of 116

‘example of Tobias Ltger, owner of Shopiy, a thriving e-commerce company, began a8 a start
up in Ortava's Byward Marker and continues robe headquartered there.

KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

Identity the kind of entrepreneurlinietment the City of Brockvile would like to attract,
land then establish an ideal methad of attraction withthe pssible help ofan arm of
government, not embassylambassadoial hep, whichis prepared and equipped to help
facitate the City's pale

=the ambassadoil/embay route i something the Cty of Broce woud Hike to
pursue, pemaps asa regional inativ, connecting with the Canadian embassies inthe
counties where the individuals and companies exit so that attraction efforts can be
collaborative would perhaps be beneficial

+ Tall attracton efforts to wat the residents ofthe source country ar ooking for
‘eg. Germans and the Dutch are leokng for nature and wide open spaces, are attracted
to Canadas natural beauty.

Try to attract tourist groups by bus that i, by large bus tour operators te stp in
Brockville on the Montreal Toronto routes—create German ‘rend packages

* Brand in such 2 way that tourism and immigration are connected

* Promote that children can be educated in both French and English because ot
(Germans border with France and the associated interest in the language

‘The City of Brock is the fist municipality to be funded and to carry out research into
the possibilities of bridge-buildng between embassies and municipal governments in
‘order to facilitate economic development opportunites. The result ofthis investigation i

‘that Brockville has many fruitful options to consider and routes to plan as a result of this
exploration. While embassies ae considered to be “fortresses” and “black boxes’ by many
‘due to theie bureaueratic natu, the esuk of his investigation demonstrated some promising
leads forthe City of Brockville ase plan its futute global economic development statepes.

Ethnic Business Association & Chambers of Commerce Outcomes

‘Similar to contacts made with the embassies, connection with the ethnic chambers of commerce
‘ofthe same counties bore out litle response, Responses did come from the fllowing

‘+The Canada-Southern Africa Chamber of Business (Toronto)
‘+The Canadian German Chamber of Commerce and Industry Inc. (Toronto)
+ Innovation Norway (Toronto)

‘+ The Netherlands-Canada Chamber of Commerce (The Netherlands)

“These organizations specially see themseives as having a role in facilitating business and
possible residential attraction to Canada, They answered this specific question:

‘Does your Chamber have aoe helping small communities aac ew residents (has, resides from
your county) andor foreign dive ivestment If yes, wha is that le?

“The Chambers wil be considered in cura and then recommendations wil be elucidated
afterward base on the collected sesponses.

German companies ae
loki ete ong

+ Easy aces to Mghnay
sad Apart

+ Suppee papas

+ nding

Mow easyer ti to
cetetish company

+ Susi star Caras

+ ages in Con

ineigraing to cana
+ cost of ng
+ ages

Page 84 of 116

‘Specific Ethnic Business Association /
Chambers of Commerce Recommendations

‘The Canada-Southern Africa Chamber of Business

[Mr, Brace Shapiro, President ofthe Canad-Southern fica Chamber of Business suggests
‘that they would beable, as an organization, ro hep attact people to smal communities

‘bu that this would bea small number. Mr. Shapiro is willing ro advise his database of S500
people about the benefits of setling in small communities like Brockville. In all, the Canada
Southern Africa Chamber of Business deals with high level individuals with fotegn direct
Investment gong to Africa nt from Africa ro Canada, They are able o facilitate Business-o-
‘business nesworking and contact between Africa and Canada

‘The Canadian German Chamber of Commerce and Industry Inc.

Department Manager, Business Support Canada with The
‘Canadian German Chamber, the organization provides “assistance 1 small and medium sized
companies in Germany and Canada interested in market entry ino the respective country, as
‘well as business development, Further, the Chamber offers its client valuable contacts and
‘business partner introductions. We donot help small communities to ateract new tesidents,
‘The Chamber isthe primary contact for German and Canadian companies, organizations and
individuals interested in markee entry ito the respective other country

‘The German Canada Chamber offers a Visa and Immigration consultation and application
service. If we ind that the individual qualifies fora Provincial Nominee Program or Federal
Program we submit ther application tothe appropiate visa fice (either work permit or
permanent residency)” They donot take any role in assisting small communities inthe
traction of German immigrant,

Echoing the barrier that Mr. Frank Hartmann identified above, accreditation for Germans
\wanting to come to Canada isa huge barre. Ms, Sedlmeier explains,

Canada's Immigration Programs make it very dificult attract skilled workers dae othe fact hata
lov of are regulated andthe individual have to have Gcence. A foreign worker cant gt acne
nls he has work experience in Canada. The German Edacaion sytem (Apprenticeship Taning
Voctinal Tuning. Dual Education System, ec) is highly recognized wordide bt if hey wane
to work aa carpenter, roofer or any the profession in Canad thy ar ot abl to, cause they
wll not get hi cence unless hey have passed an exam wth hi regulatory boy. So yous

‘ven though Cte, Municipalities have te bs interest a attract new sien from al over the
worl, the person who would ike work in hat City might nor beallowed a aso have Enginers
‘or Doctors who would ie tower and live in Canada bt ae no able co beaut of athe bales
‘thy face nt they ld inal be alto work in her profession. Thy have ben studying for
‘yearsan hav extensive work experience, but are no alowed ro work wihextremerestritions.
Canadian companies contact mealthe tine and woud like to ie people fom Germany but when 1
Inform cher, what they have odoin order o ial get them to Canada and workin ir profesion
they are very dscouraged

Innovation Norway
Innovation Norway came to light via the The Royal Norwegian Embassy who responded
‘to requests for interviews with embassy officials by connecting me to Innovation Nosy,

‘the Norwegian Governments “instrument for innovation and development of Norwegian
enterprises and industry” according to Line B. Lonnum, Consular Oficer ac the Royal

[Norwegian Embassy. According to Mr Lonnum, The Royal Norwegian Embassy is advancing
[Norwegian commercial interests in Canada i the following ways

‘+ By establishing and participating in networks and arenas o connect Norwegian and
Canadian business incerests

+ Through representing Norwegian commercial interests before the federal government
and provincial authorities

+ By partnering with Norwegian industries ro contact the Canadian authorities for
‘example, in situations wth changing framework conditions and legislation

‘+ Through performing public diplomacy and promoting Norway in generat

+ By connecting business interests with Norwegian foreign policy in general; for example,
‘rade agreements and regulatories,

+ By making the Embassy and the oficial Norwegian residence in Ortawa available to
[Norwegian companies for busines elated activites

In addition, The Norwegian Embassy in Ortawa works closely with Innovation Norway (LN)
“The mandate of IN is “to support companies in developing thie competitive advantage,
enhance innovation and be a partner in internationalizaion. Through Innovation Norway the
[Norwegian enterprises have acess toa broad business support system aswell a different
financial means, Innovation Norway provides competence, advisory services, promotional
services and network services, By combining loal industry knowledge and international
‘networks with the business ideas and the motivation of entrepreneurs, the foundation for new
succesful businesses is created

According to Me. Lonnum, i the on-the-ground experience that Innovation Norway has in
‘Canada that “provides market insight and competence, trade advisory services, commercial
and R&D partner searches, promotional services and networking opportunities. The ofce
“tength lies in connecting local industry knowledge and Canadian networks withthe business
‘ideas and the motivation of Norwegian entrepreneurs; creating the foundation for sucessful
‘ew businesses in Canada. novation Norway helps Norwegian companies gain access to
‘this wealthy, globally important, and financially stable market sing extensive competence and
experience

“The responses from these Chambers and organization reflec difering levels of interest with
‘regard to helping facilitate business, investment, and residential immigrant attraction eo cities
such as Brockville

KEY RECOMMENDATIONS

‘These recommendations are elated to and reflective of the above recommendation fram
the embassies.

Global promotion of Srockile’s business climate and advantages (via source country
‘embassies and via wling chambers and business organizations)

* Help with the immigration process fr incividuals including advocating fr streamed
and advanced accreitaton services

‘Opportunities exis atthe global evel forthe City of Brockville but a streamlined and
focused approach is what is needed going forward. Organisations and facilitators of business
‘connection and development exist in each country contacted. However, fester willingness
and motivation that needs to be explore, tapped into, and engaged through the promotion of
‘what Brockville has 0 offer.

Page 85 of 116

Page 86 of 116

PART 5
WHAT EXISTS AND WHERE TO START

What Exists

‘The Cty of Brock is well omits way to becoming a place where resident ofthe world
can reside, This is due tothe will ofthe Cay itself, at both a municipal government and
sed levels, to welcome newcomers and o see the City gow and lurish,

‘communicy
Here isa shor list of what is currently being done inthe City of Brockville by various actors:

+ Unrelated to this project, the Downtown Business Improvement Association (DBA)
thas iniiated a project that “aims to grow and develop the tour bus attaction plan for
Downtown Brockville as promoter of the businesses and attractions, contributing
tothe growch and development of the Downtown core and the postive sustainability
‘of economic development in our region” by hiring a "Motor Coach Promotor fora 26
‘week period in aneffore o gow our network within the Tour operator industry.” This
Inia aligns very nicely with recommendations around the traction of tourists as
residents and of cresting a relationship withthe tour bus industry to create mote trafic
‘through Brockyil

‘+ The Employment + Education Centre (EEC) is curently partnering with the
‘municpaliey on an immigrant mentorship granc application, This will contribute
significantly to recommendations around employment opportunites and mentorship
‘made and modelled by local immigrant enttepreneuts

+ There isa grea dal of work going on by the Refuges for Brockville commitee that
the Mayor, avid Henderson, curently leads, Tis group has taken the lead role in the
‘community in setng ten Syrian refuge fails t Brockville. This group along with
‘many community-based faith groups, have begun creating the infrastructure necessary
towelcome newcomers

‘+ Wall Steet United Church has opened its doors to other faith groups including
‘welcoming the Muslim community and providing space to host Ramadan activities as no
‘mosque exists inthe City. Senor Pastor Kimberly Heath is interested in expanding into
a multi-ath centee so that diverse faith groups have a place they can cll home. Auli
faith centre was a direct recommendation by local iumigrant entrepreneurs including
Bhangwat Parmar and Kashif Riaz.

‘+A best practice around attracting and retaining immigrant entrepreneuts is recognising
‘their achievements and successes publicly The Leeds & Grenville Small Business
Enterprise Centre has partnered with the Leeds & Gremwille Immigration Partnership
forthe second annual Immigrant Entrepreneur Awards in Brockville and this has proven
tobe a huge success in terms ofthe recognition of individuals and businesses.

Page 87 of 116

LIP THE LEEDS & GRENVILLE IMMIGRATION PARTNERSHIP

‘The Leeds & Grenvile Immigration Partnership (LIP) s behind much of the work being done inthe Cty of Brockule
regarding immigration. The importance of his organization forthe Cy of Brochle being able to attract and retain
newcomers ofan kind cannot be overstated. While the LIP snot a service providing agency, its ality to connect,
refer, and colaborate with community service providers is essential to any immigration program in existence in
Brockville, The LIP was askes what woud hep them inthe work they are curently doing and here stele response:

= Continued City support forthe program via in-kine cantributions and when possible, nancial anes.

* Continued support and invlvement fom the Mayor (eis lead oe in refugee initiative) is beneficial to the overall
public perception of immigration fsues and therefore, the LIP. His continued contributions would be help

' The sharing of leads/contacts from other municipalities would help the LIP enhance relationships with municipal
staff and elected official.

‘The LIP is an excellent organizational force in the community with important Cty backing, This organization achieves
1 great deal and brings together important actors fram across Lads & Gren Cty support can came in the form
ofthe Chief Diersty and Inclusion Officer who could callaborate with the LIP and action many of the tems outings
in thie document.

Where to Start

‘Samia ODay, Founding Director Canada Music Academy, All You Need Music, Montreal
‘Academy of Music as well sa pianist, musician, and educator in the community, recently

“poke about her experiences as an immigrant and an employe of immigrants atthe Leeds &

Grenville Immigration Partnership's Diversity Dy. Her message atthe event and reflections

‘that followed included whac a pose place Brockville i for business and “what a great asset
{ngernational employees can be for busines in an international economy.

Samia Ds:
ow in ny prec a
uta, ering el

‘race cot. Dig

Brockville i ful of visionaries like Ms. ©’ Day and other local immigranc entrepreneurs who
‘teat opportunities where none seem exist and work hatd to make their new ives and
‘homes in Canada the sucess that they hoped it would be upon immigrating. Ms. O'Day’s
Insights demonstate the extent ro which the City of Brockville can be the next epicenter of
|mmigrant entrepreneur attraction through an investment of time, effort and resources—
‘human and fnancial—int attraction asa main driver of economic development.

Brockville can begin attraction immediately via two strategic moves: through the hiring
‘of a Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer and through a national and global attraction
‘campaign that targets specific entrepreneurs from relevant source countries.

ery pose ap it is
age pote ad si ven
Brocka an ro eal 8
wel (Wepand econo

In onder to bring this document to life, there needs to be a champion for iumigrant
entrepreneur attraction, otherwise a toolkit such ae this wll sion a shelf. Appointing a
‘dedicated city official to this cause means growing institutional capacity from the inside of
‘municipal government ro begin attraction efforts and proactively creating the conditions to
‘make Brockville a place whee the world can reside.

Page 88 of 116

REFERENCES

Alberta Urban Municipalities Association, (2014) Municipal Evaluation Tol Measuring incon
‘The Welcoming & Inclusive Communities Initiative, Alberta Urban Municipalities Assocation,

‘Brandon University Rural Development Insitute (2005). “Manitoba Rural Immigration
‘Community Case Studies, Winkler.” Working Paper #2005-8. Apri

(Caldwell, Wayne J. 2010). Resource Maeils for Community Eonamic Development: rasering
‘wth astableo dsctnng population. Schoo of Environmental Design and Rural Developmen.
University of Guelph

Cites of Migration. (2012). Good Meus from Sucesfl Chie: Mnicpal leadership on immigrant
Incegration, Maytece Foundation,

(Conference Board of Canada. (2010) migrant as Innovators: Boosting Canada’s loal
‘Competitiveness. The Conference Boaed of Canada.

Florida, Richard, (2000). “Technology, Talent and Tolerance: The nation’s leading high
tech centers are places where people from virtually any background can settle and make
‘things happen” InformationWeek com. November 13, 2000. htp:/sswwinformationweek,
com/812/12uwrt hum

Government of Ontario. (2012) A New Direction: Ontario's immigration rater. Queen's Pinter
for Ontario,

‘Green, David and Huju Liv and Yuri Ostrovsky, Garnett Pict. (2016) migration, Business
(Ownership and Employment in Canada. Analytical Seudies Branch, Statistics Canada, 11FOOI9M
No. 375,

[National Working Group on Small Centre Strategies. (2007). Atracting and Retaining
Immigrant: toolbox of iene for smaller centes.lncer-cutural Association of Greater Victoria

‘Ontario's Expert Roundtable on Immigration, (2012) Expanding Our Rote to Sues: The final
report by Ontario's Expert Roundtable on immigration, Quct's Printer fr Ontario,

Stolavck, Kevin. (2012). Benchmarking the Creativ Eamomy in Rural Ontario. Martin Prosperity
Instiute February,

APPENDIX A :
Master List of Recommendations

ret Oe: nso Oey
+ Jao te Canadian Colson of Manica Assan Racin and
Disziminaton (CCMARD)

Tas Ts Ryoaling

+ Clb wth Othe Muncie on Regionale

1+ Adopr Tepid Secondary Migrant Atrctin Sttesy

1+ Theting of Chie Divert and lactation Otc (CDIO) i
comin the strain of saan migtants—ove pele
who hve lead etre Cada and arlontng elo 9
Igliedo mach ger mainland balancer

1 High he gun of ein Boca a rok Catal
Ambastador rogram chat he lt pop ora bythe
pec azacionpoprams that anh informed by Boole

Page 89 of 116

‘The iy ms aes te ove employment stunonn
an eed needy he exiting mia enrepenct
Meni the bind of enrepener/inestmear he Cty of
prernment pt embuenyambastaderi ep, which reared
seu lp ett the iy ae

‘orp direct investment andor inal etrepencr.
Meni the hind of enrepener/inestmenr he Cy of
prernment pt embuenyambastaderi ep, which reared
nde lp ite the iy oe.

ee rtstndora ems rte ie sorehing the iy of
rockviewoul ie a pune, pehape at resonant,
“Tey ate teri soupy bar —that iy arg bas our
gli beni of Grats order its race athe

(sia sauce country mss ad a wling chambers nd

APPENDIX B

Leeds & Grenville Immigration Partnershif

Member Organizations”

Page 90 of 116

“The Immigration Partnership is guided by inp rom a Council hat meets quarterly. As
‘of June 2015, the Council i comprised of nineteen diferenc organizations and businesses

from across Leeds & Grenville. complete ist of these organizations can be found below. A
‘Working Group dedicated ro employment and settlement issues also exist, and its mentbers
are indicated by an asterisk

Brockville & District Multicultural Councit
‘Chinese & Canadian Heritage Cultural Assocation

ity of Brockville Economic Development

CSE Consulting?

Employment & Education Cente"

Francophone Immigration Support Network of East Ontario
Fulford Academy

KEYS Job Cente*

Leeds & Grenville Small Business Enterprise Centcet

Ontario Ministry of Agriculture, Food & Rural Affairs

‘Thousand Islands National Park (Parks Canada)

‘St Lawrence College

1000 Islands Region Workforce Development Board

‘The Works Events Canada Inc

‘TR Leger Immigrant Services/TR Leger Services aux Immigrants*
United Counties of Leeds & Grenville

Upper Canada Leger Centre

‘Volunteer Centte ofS, Lawrence-Rideau

YMCA of Brockville (as of November 2016)


APPENDIX C
Ministry of Citizenship, Immigration and Intemational Trade
Immigration Programs'2015 Call for Proposals.
City of Brockville

t Logic My

Outputs

+ Complain of tabase

Evaluation

Page 91 of 116

Term Outcome

Page 92 of 116

APPENDIX D
Interview Schedule for Local Immigrant Entrepreneurs

1 Participant Profile 21, What serves dd you inaly acess if ary?

1. Pease ell me all bic ous yours

2, Please ell me about your family make-up.

3. Please ell me about your home country/provinee

4 Please ell me about your decision 1 move to Canada/
Brockville

1 Personal Considerations

15. What hind of soc factors were you looking for ina new
‘home countsy/province?

6 Whar hind of politcal factors were important 10 you,
any?

17. How involved were you ia community Mein your
preiouscounty/province/eyof eign? Did community
pariipatan factor ino your ehoie of new location?

LU Immigration Process

1. How did you find Beockile?

‘9. Why did you choose Canada/Brocklle as the country you
wanted to sete ia?

10, What was your experience moving to Canada/Brockile
ee

1, What was your family’s experience ofthe process of
snmigrating?

12, Did you encounter anything unexpected duving your
roc of immigrating to Canada or moving om a
dierent province?

13, What factors needed wo bein plac so that you could fel
confident about your move to Canada/Beocvile?

14. tn choosing to migrate, did ou fel that there was more
of a-pull toward Canads/Onaro ra “puth” fom your
Ire country/province? Or would you characterize your
decison diferent?

15, Did you know anyone inthe country?

16 Did you contact anyone frm your Bom county ethale
socal network) before arcing or upon aeving in
Canada/Oncri?

17 Have you stayed connected to your sci network in your
‘home couney/province of landing?

18, Are you involved in any home countey enc groups here
‘in Canada?

IV Services

18, What services were you aware of before your move 6
(Canada/Brockvile?
20, Which serves dd you find most hep?

22. Whece there specie service providers that helped you?
Who a ow?

23. What would have specifically helped you either with your
leansiion wa new countryeommunity or busines ste
op

24, Did language playa role in your process of immigration?

25, How ready do you think Broce ito recov iigran
entrepreneurs Ike you?

26, How would you mazket Brockville to fends or ealleagues
Inking to move/emigrate? That i, wha would you tll
people about Brock’ quality of?

Business Considerations

27. What was you busines experience pie to avin in
CCanada/Brockvle?

28. What did you know about the economie stuation
‘Canada/Ontri before arriving?

29, What role did business veoure playin your decison
‘making to relocate to Canada/Beockvil?

130, Could your business be auccesfil anywhere oi ts
success speci 1 Canada/Brockile?

431, What plans do you have for your business in the coming
‘months and years?

‘VI Final Considerations (Sociopolitical Integration)

32, How welcoming has Brockile bee to you and your
family?

35, How wel do you fel you have adapted to your new heme
country?

|34. What wok the longest learn in terms of Canadian
alt, values, norms, radios, languages, ete?

35. How do you now describe your nationale?

135 What do you like most about Canada and/or Brock?

[37 What would you ike tose improved in Canada and/or
Brockvle?

38. How long do you se yourself remaining in this aren? Are
there any freseable factors that would compel you

439, Are you valved in business assocaios, service
‘organizations, plial partes, et?

40, Doyou know of any ater immigrant enteepeeneuts in
‘Brockville that might be willing to partcpate inthis
stay?

41, Is there anything you would keto ad ehat you fel s
televant but has not been covered in aur convertion?

Page 93 of 116

APPENDIX E
Leeds & Grenville Immigration Partnership's (LIP) Diversity Day 2016 Poster

The Leeds & Grenville Immigration
Partnership and the City of Brockville Present:

Le

winnie

Wednesday, October 26, 2016 8:30-1:30pm.

Municipalities * Immigrants * Employers * Service Providers
Community Members * Schools

Keynote Speaker: Hindia Mohamoud
Director, Ottawa Local Immigration
Partnership

Panel Conversation: Local individuals
will share their experiences of
creating inclusive spaces.

Facilitated Group Discussion:
Contribute ideas about how to make
our community more inclusive for


Page 94 of 116

APPENDIX F
Proposal Report for the City of Brockville to Join the
Canadian Coalition of Municipalities Against Racism and

imination
JACQUELINE SCHOEMAKER HOLMES, Ph.D.

“The purpose ofthis report isto provide information abour che judicousness ofthe City of
Brockville’ proposed initiative 10 join the Canadian Coalcion of Municipalities Against
Racism and Discrimination (CCMARD). This action builds on Brockville’ status as the
leading regional benchmark community fr “talent, tolerance and technology” according
tothe Martin Prosperity Insitute.” Brockville is unique fr its size in terms of the existing
and ongoing initiatives dedicated to fostering diversity and inlusion within the community
Existing organizations involved in cresting and sustaining ongoing relevant iniaivs in
Brockville inch:

Leeds & Grenville Immigration Partnership
‘Canadian Associaton of Retired persons (CARP) Age-FriendlyInivative
Brockville ad District Multicultural Council

Brockville Pride Commitee and Working Group

‘Many other grassroots initiatives by individuals, organizations and local religious
establishments and leaders

Brockville therefore already meets the thece broad commitment categories related to being a
‘municipality against racism and discrimination: 1) The Municipality asa guardian of public
Jtrest; 2) The Municipality as an organization inthe fulfillment of human rights and; 3) The
-Municipalicy as a community sharing responsibly for respecting and promoting human rights
and diversity. The City therefore only has to ratily this commitment ina formal declaration to
join ts close neighbour cites, Kingston and Bellevile, among 63 ther Canadian cities, in this
Coalition

‘What is the Canadian Coalition of Municipalities Against Racism and
Discrimination?”

‘The International Coalition of Cities Against Racism was launched in 2006 by UNESCO
(¢he United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization) was part ofthe
Organization’ fllow-up srategy to the World Conference on Racism, Racial Discrimination,
‘Xenophobia and Related Intolerance (Durban, 2001). The goal ofthis international coalition i
‘establish a network of cities intrested in sharing their experiences inorder improve their
policies against racism, discrimination, exclusion and intolerance. The network comprised of
six regional coalitions Europe, Africa, Asia and Pacific, Arab States, Latin America and the
(Caribbean, and Canada (note tht Canada is unique asthe only country-level coalition). In
January 2005 a pan-Canadian working group was formed and Canadian municipalities began
‘obs invited ¢o join this larger international movement by signing « Declaration and making a
‘commitment tothe Canadian Coalition Against Racism and Discrimination (CCMARD),

(Ce1nRo) Tot er Males, aansaors and Ces. (2012. Canaan Cormac UNESCO,

What are the Objectives of CCMARD?

“The main objective of CCMARD is to adress the need fora platform to broaden and
-rengthen the ability to protect and promote human rights chrough coordinated and shared
esponsibility among local governments, iil scity organizations and other democratic
instiutios, The creation of CCMARD is based on the common desite to achieve these two
goals:

+ Share experiences and lessons learned with others;
+ strengthen policies to counter al forms of discrimination ro achieve greater social
Inclusion,

What are the Benefits of Joining CCMARD?
_Municipalisies benefit in myriad ways. Some of these benefits ae listed below.

+ Increased acess toa network of municipalities thoughout Canada and the world that
promotes the sharing of bese practices and resources to combat racism and other forms
of discrimination;

“+ Increased legitimacy and support fr anti-racism and diversity initiatives through being
part of international UNESCO-led network of cites

+ Strengthened partnerships wich local organizations, business and individuals concerned
about discrimination;

“+ More in-depth understanding of local realities and increased community committee
‘through the development ofa Plan of Action with the involvement of diverse community
stakeholders

+ Increased sustainability and documentation of ant-discrimination initiatives through
‘the creation and implementation of Pan of Action that is approved by Council

+ Increased accountability eo citizens through che implementation and ongoing evaluation
‘ofthe municipal Plan of Action;

+ Increased tus, loyalty, and respec towards the municipality fom employees and
citizens as a resul ofthe maniipaiy’s public commitment to actions that foster greater
‘equality, inclusion and appreciation for diversi

Joining CCMARD means thatthe municipality in question commits to becoming a more
‘welcoming and inclusive community commitment chac has is own telated benefit,

What are the Benefits of Investing Time and Resources to Create a More
Welcoming and Inclusive Community?

Improved Community Life A welcoming and inclusive community is one in which all citizens
fee ale to actively participate in the economic, social and cultural aspects ofthe community
‘without encountering barriers due o discrimination. This involvement from diverse
‘community members eads to an enriched, safer and more cohesive life in the municipality.

Improved Economic fof the Munipaly: Municipalities that are committed to creating a
‘welcoming community by combatting racism and other forms of diseriminaion are in
‘better positon to attract and retain immigrants, Aboriginal peoples and underrepresented
populations in the workforce

Increased fciony: Improved efficiency due to reduced racism and discrimination ina

‘municipality includes improved service delivery, fewer complaints to Council and reduced
liabilyinthe event of complains based on discrimination,

Page 95 of 116

Page 96 of 116

Improve Response: Municipalities that have devoted time and attention to addtes racism and
“other forms of discrimination in their community are beter prepared and more effective in
‘their esponse should an event of discrimination occur.

Joining CCMARD

Ultimately, making this commitment to joining CCMARD also involves committing toa
‘municipal Plan of Action which is guided by CCMARDYs 10 Common Commitments that
Inform the work of municipalities. These are:

“The Municipality as a Guardian of Public Incerest,

1. Inctease vigilance against systemic and individual racism and discrimination.
[Monizor racism and discrimination in the community more broadly as wel as municipal
actions taken to address racism and disrimination.

|. Inform and support individuals who experience racism and discrimination,

|. Support police services in thee attempts to be exemplary institutions in combating
‘acim and discrimination.

‘The Municipality as an Organization in the Fulfillment of Human Rights

5. Provide equal opportunites asa municipal employer, service provider and contractor.

{6 Support measures to promote equity inthe labour market.

7. Support measures to challenge racism and discrimination and promote diversity and equal
‘opportunity housing.

‘The Municipality as a Community Shs

‘Human Rights and Diversity

‘8 Involve citizens by giving them a voice in anti-racism initiatives and decision-making,

9. Support measures to challenge raciem and discrimination and promote diversity and equal
‘opportunity inthe education sector and in ther form of learning.

10, Promote respect, appreciation and understanding of cultural diversity and che inclusion of
Aboriginal and racilized communities into the culeural fabric ofthe municipality.

‘ing Responsibility for Respecting and Promoting

Each municipal Plan of Acton is specific ro the community itself and can be as large or small
as the stakeholders deem appropriate. Examples of municipal Plans of Action areas follows

“+ Calgary, Alberta developed a Welcoming Communities Policy

+ Gatineau, Québec created a Policy on Cultural Diversity

+ Stratford, Prince Edward Island committed to “The Diversity and Inclusion Report and
Plan forthe Town of Seratord”

Practically, joining CCMARD involves the City of Brockville: Adopting resolution to join
Informing the Canadian Commission for UNESCO; and then Celebrating and declaring
Brockville’ involvement through a signing ceremony of other special event.

‘The City of Brockuilleis in an excellent postion to declare its commitment to combatting
‘acim and all farms of discrimination ro the international community and therefore build
‘on its benchmark reputation a a tolerant city by taking its commitment ro the next level and
‘transforming tolerance into demonstrated municipal and community respect for diversity

For more information contact Jacqueline Schoemaker Holmes, Project Researcher, Immigrant
Entrepreneur Attraction, Economic Development Department, ity of Brockville at 613-342-
{8772, ext 432 o at joes rocole com or Dave Paul, Economic Development Director,
City of Brockville t 613-342-8772, ext. 445 or at ould bern. com

Page 97 of 116

APPENDIX G
Joining the Canadian Coalition of Municipalities Against Racism and
Discrimination Report to Council

JACQUELINE SCHOEMAKER HOLMES, Ph.D.
Recommendations

‘That City Council provide endorsement rowards Brockville’ joining the Canadian Coalition of
‘Municipalities Against Racism and Discrimination (CCMARD), and further,

‘That the City proceed with adopting a resolution to sgn the declaration to jin, and further,

“That the City then informs the Canadian Commission for UNESCO about its intention t join
CCMARD, and further,

“That the City proceed with a signing ceremony and undertake an oficial Acton Pan that is
{guided by CCMARD's Ten Common Commitments (outlined below).

Purpose

‘According 10 the Martin Prosperity Institute 2009)," an economic think tank chat conducted
‘large scale research project for the Economie Developers Council of Ontario (funded in
part by the Ontario Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Rural Afar), Brockville is one ofthe
leading regional benchmark communities for "alent, tolerance and technology” in Eastern
‘Ontario (55). This study provided benchmarking and analsis of Ontario's rural Creative
Economy and found that Brockville ad the highest percentage of creative class workers in
‘the area, withthe exception of Port Hope (55). Creative class workers are attracted to vibrant
nd diverse communities—cheir high concentration in Brockville therefore demonstates
‘both Brockville’ existing commitment ro social and cultural diversity and its ability to
attract mote creative clas workers to what Richard Florida call is “creative economy"

(60). By declaring its commitment ro combatting racism and all forms of discrimination to
‘the international community by joining the Canadian Coalition of Municipalities Against
Racism and Discrimination (CMMARD), Brockville formalize its commitment to inclusion
and diversity om a global stage. This action takes the City of Brockvill'scommixment 10
‘celebrating diversity tothe nes level by eransforming rlerance into demonstrated municipal
land community respec for, and acceptance of, divers.

Further, this commitment provides the City of Brockville with platform to demonstrate
its existing commitment to diversity inthe community. Ths declaration allows Brockville
tobrand an image of che reality that already exes inthe communisy—that ofa warm,
‘welcoming and inclusive city, This postive public image could impact the attraction of
‘business opportunities as well as new residents andthe related economic benefits that
accompany such interests,

‘This commitment provides the City of Brockville with additional supportive language to assist
inthe enhancement ofthe community’ local, regional, national, and global profile while
simultaneously providing further substantive evidence regarding the City's commitment tothe
‘corporate values of Brockville as inially introduced inthe 2009 Corporate Plan exercise.

1 rt Prepay sae (2009), Cana Cte Corie Contig cree cnn ih ate ni

Page 98 of 116

‘Asa member of CCMARD, the City of Brockville will jin a well-respected and acknowledged
‘slobal network of regions, organization, nations and ches that have commited to making
‘the world a more just, equal, and fair place. Brockuille and Canada are unique in this global
village as the network is comprised of six regional coalitions: Europe, Africa, Asia and Pacific,
‘Arab Stats, Latin America and the Caribbean, and, the only nation-ievel coalition, Canada.
[Note that because Canada isthe only country-level coalition, individual municipalities like
Brockville Become recognized world leaders on action against racism an discrimination on
‘the global sage theough ther commitment ro CCMARD.

Background

‘The International Coalition of Cities Against Racism was launched in 2006 by UNESCO
(¢he United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization) was part ofthe
Organization’ fllow-up srategy to the World Conference on Racism, Racial Discrimination,
‘Xenophobia and Related Intolerance (Durbaa, 2001). The goal ofthis international coalition
{is to establish a network of cites interested in sharing their experiences in order to improve
‘ther policies agains aciam, discrimination, exclusion and incleranc. In January 2005 a pan-
‘Canadian working group was formed and Canadian municipalities began ta be invited ro join
‘this larger international movement by signing a Declaration and making a commitment tothe
Canadian Coalition Against Racism and Discrimination (CCMARD),

“The main objective of CCMARD is to adress the need fora platform to broaden and
strengthen the ability to protect and promote human rights chrough coordinated and shared
esponsibility among local governments, iil society organizations and other democratic

instiutios, The creation of CCMARD is based on the common desite to achieve these two

goals:

+ Share experiences and lessons learned with others;
+ strengthen policies to counter al forms of discrimination ro achieve greater social
Inclusion,

[No funds are required to join CCMARD and the scope ofthe Plan of Action each municipality
‘commits to is unique and determined by the community itself mesning chac all aspects of the
Plan of Action are undertaken solely bythe municipality to releet CCMARD's Ten Common
(Commitment outlined below.

‘The Municipality as a Guardian of Public Incerest

1. Inctease vigilance gainet systemic and individual racism and discrimination.

2. Monitor racism and disrimination inthe community more broadly as well as municipal
actions taken to address racism and disrimination.

43. Inform and support individuals who experience racism and discrimination,

|. Support police services in thee attempts to be exemplary institutions in combating
‘acim and discrimination.

‘The Municipality as an Organization in the Fulfillment of Human Rights

5. Provide equal opportunities asa municipal employer, service provider and contactor.

{6 Support measures to promote equity inthe labour market.

7. Support measures ro challenge racism and discrimination and promote diversity and equal
‘opportunity housing.

“The Municipality as a Community Sharing Responsibility for Respecting and Promoting

‘Human Rights and Diversity

‘8 Involve citizens by giving them a voice in anti-racism initiatives and decision-making,

9. Support measures to challenge raciem and discrimination and promote diversity and equal
‘opportunity inthe education sector and in ther form of learning.

10, Promote respect, appreciation and understanding of cultural diversity and che inclusion of
Aboriginal and racilized communities into the culeural fabric ofthe municipality.

Analysis,

Joining CCMARD means thatthe City of Brockville commis to becoming an even more
‘welcoming and inclusive community commitment chat has is own telated benefits
inclding

Improved Community Life A welcoming and inclusive community is one in which all citizens
fee ale to actively participate in the economic, social and cultural aspects ofthe community
‘without encountering barriers due o discrimination. This involvement from diverse
‘community members eads to an enriched, safer and more cohesive life in the municipality.

Improved Economic fof the Munipaly: Municipalities that are committed to creating a
‘welcoming community by combatting racism and other forms of diseriminaion are in
‘better positon to attract and retain immigrants, Aboriginal peoples and underrepresented
populations in the workforce

Increased fciony: Improved efficiency due to reduced racism and discrimination ina
‘municipality includes improved service delivery, fewer complaints to Council and reduced
liabilyinthe event of complains based on discrimination,

Improve Response: Municipalities that have devoted time and attention to addtes racism and
“other forms of discrimination in their community are beter prepared and more effective in
‘their esponse should an event of discrimination occur.

_Municipalities benef from their membership in CCMARD in myriad ways, Some ofthese
‘benefits ae listed below.

+ Increased acess toa network of municipalities thoughout Canada and the world that
promotes the sharing of bese practices and resources to combat racism and other forms
of discrimination;

“+ Increased legitimacy and support fr anti-racism and diversity initiatives through being
part of international UNESCO-led network of cites

+ Strengthened partnerships wich local organizations, business and individuals concerned
about discrimination;

“+ More in-depth understanding of local realities and increased community committee
‘through the development ofa Plan of Action with the involvement of diverse community
stakeholders

+ Increased sustainability and documentation of ant-discrimination initiatives through
‘the creation and implementation of Pan of Action that is approved by Council

+ Increased accountability eo citizens through che implementation and ongoing evaluation
‘ofthe municipal Plan of Action;

+ Increased tus, loyalty, and respec towards the municipality fom employees and
citizens as a resul ofthe maniipaiy’s public commitment to actions that foster greater
‘equality, inclusion and appreciation for diversi

Page 99 of 116

Page 100 of 116

“The proposed ation is supported by the Federation of Canadian Municipalities which has
«encouraged its members to join In addition, the Canadian Race Relations Foundation and the
Canadian Assocation of Statutory Human Rights Agencies have supported the inkaive since
its lunch. Other agencies that support municipal involvement is CCMARD include

‘+The Racim-Free Workplace Strategy, HRSDC -Labour Program
+ Human Rights Commissions in Alberta, Ontario, and Saskatchewan
“+The Union des Municipals ds Québec

‘+The Alberta Urban Municipalities Association,

+ The Union of Nova Scotia Municipalities

+The National Assocation of Friendship Centres

Research chars, federal and provincial ministries and agencies as wells an important
‘number of local stakeholders complete the network,

‘We will join our close neighbour cities, Kingston and Belleville, and 63 other Canadian cis,
inthis Coalition.

Brockville already meets the three broad commitment categories related to being 2
‘municipality against racism and discrimination: 1) The Municipality asa guardian of public
‘rest; 2) The Municipality 25 an organization inthe fulfillment of human rights and; 3)
‘The Municipality asa community sharing responsibility fr respecting and promoting human
rights and diversity, The City therefore only has to ratify this commitment inthe formal
declaration,

Practically, joining CCMARD involves the City of Brockville: Adopting resolution to join
Informing the Canadian Commission for UNESCO; and then Celebrating and declaring
Brockville’ involvement through a signing ceremony of other special event.

An lected oficial contact as well asa municipal staff contact will need ro be named as
primary CCMARD contacts and may choose to take the lead on the City of Brockville's Plan of
Action

Financial Considerations

‘As mentioned previously, no funds are required to join CCMARD and the scope of the Plan
‘of Action each municipality commits to is unique and determined by the community self
‘meaning that all aspects ofthe Plan of Action are undertaken solely by the municipality to
reflect CCMARD': Ten Common Commitment outlined above. Each municipal Plan of Action
is specifi tothe community itself and can be as large or small asthe stakeholders deem
appropriate.

Conclusion

‘The City of Brockulleis in an excellent postion to declare its commitment to combating
‘acim and all forms of discrimination ro the inernatonal community by joining the Canadian
Coalition of Municipalities Against Racism and Discrimination. In doing So, Brockville will,
‘bull on its benchmark reputation asa tolerant city and enhance this commitment tothe
people of Brockville and to any neicomers to Brockville, by transforming tolerance into
‘demonstrated municipal and community espec for, nd acceptance and celebration of,
diversity.

APPENDIX H
Job Advertisement for Use by the City of Brockuille

JACQUELINE SCHOEMAKER HOLMES, Ph.D.
Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer”
Description of Responsibilities

‘The Chief Diversity and Inclusion Oficer (CDIO) position requires an experienced and
dynamic individual who has a deep understanding ofthe complexity and multiple dimensions
of diversity, inclusion, and equity, inclding—But not limited to—age, clas, culture, dis/
ability, ethnicity, gender, nationality, race, religion /sprtualiy, gender identity, sexual
‘oFientation, and socioeconomic status

‘The CDIO will havea passion for working dtectly withthe public and with and alongside
City oficial on new efforts that cultivate, enhance, and promote a City of inclusiveness and a
climate of equity in which al people may ive, work, and thrive. One key aea ofthis soe wil
‘be the implementation ofthe recommendations made inthe 2016 Best Practices Toolkit, Where
‘the World Can Reside A Tali for Attracting Inomignan Ereprenenrs to Small ity Canada that

was conducted in part ro foster the capacity of The City of Brockville ro create a welcoming,
Inclusive, and diverse community wth and for newcomers and existing residents,

‘The Chief Diversity and Inclusion Oficer will epore directly to the City Manager and will
provide counsel om ll matters pertaining to diversity and inclusion excellence. The CIO
rovides executive leadership and vision inthe City administration on a comprehensive range
‘of services, policies, and procedures relate ro diversity and inclusion excellence. The CDIO.
participates in all aspects of institutional planing in suppore ofthe mission and goals ofthe
Cir, including meeting the needs of our diverse population and cresting a living and working
‘environment where all have the opportunity to succed,

“The Chief Diversity and Inclusion Ofice's responsibilities include:

‘+ Establishing aprotcol fr educating and engaging the City and the broader community
ininelusion and diversity efforts

‘+ Assessing community need related to diversity and inclusive excellence:

+ Implementing best practices, programs and processes to address community needs;

“+ Providing executve-level leadership, strategie planing, and oversight fr instiutional
nd community-based diversity inthe ateas of programming, human resoutes,
facies, community building, health and safety, assessment, procurement, and fiscal
resoutce management

+ Fuca, nurture and grow culeues of inclusion both within Cy Hall andin che communi,

+ Implementing and coordinating taining for municipal leaders community leaders/
s1oups, and others related to diversity and inclusive excellence:

+ Developing and leading a sustainable process ro implement and continuously assess and
adap the City’ goals elated to diversity and inchusve excellence;

+ Conduct qualitative and quantitative studies to monitor Cty climate;

‘+ Support the City’s efforts 1a improve the appointment and retention of qualified,
historically underrepresented groups to municipal government;

12 Th jb otetsare as grated i sve ant anager trae ret thn

Page 101 of 116

Page 102 of 116

‘+ Enhance the recruitment and retention of diverse municipal government employees and
_members of municipal government,

+ Collaborate with interested community groups and employers in supporting the
ulzation of elective recruiting efforts that will serve to diversify thet workforces

+ Actively engage key esteral partners and maintain strong tes (eg. community
partners, diversity peers, expert in che fed) chrough regular communication, dialogue
And information-sharing and acta «thought leader at events and conferences

+ Engage the municpalicy and the community in issues related to diversity and inclusive
‘excellence at the regional, provincial, and the national lev

“+ Engage in and support diverstyrelated research and initiatives and incorporate that
‘knowledge into Cty practices and programming:

‘+ Ensure tha the municipality complies wth all elevane provincial and federal Laws and
regulations as they relat to diversity and inclusion;

+ Actas the face and voice, internally and externally ofthe Citys inclusion and diversity
‘commitment and approach

+ Actively engage in relevant City system-wide initiatives and meetings

Requirements,

+ Demonstated leadership inthe creation and delivery of municipal level, as well as
community-wide, diversity, inclusion and intercultural competency training programs

‘+ Proven ability to work with sensitive and confidential informatio;

+ Strong leadership and an ability to cultivate « common vision and collaborative culture
tw achieve institutional goals

+ Experience in employing effective problem-solving and leadership skills o bring about
‘transformational change;

+ Demonstrated knowledge, skills, awareness of and demonstrated commitment to
contemporary issues of inclusion, soca justice, diversity, access, and equity, including
‘urtent scholarship and best practices that inform these issues

‘+ Successful record af influence, community building, networking, and deploying effective
programs fr diversity and inclusion;

+ Abily to communicate efactively through writen and oral communication in
‘combination with excellent interpersonal and group communications skill at all eves
land ro various and diverse audiences

“+ Highly skilled ae presenting, writing abou, and discussing difficult or controversial
topics with diverse audiences in away that promotes productive intersetions and
positive outcomes

+ Ale to envision, conceptualize, and communicate the diversity and inclusion mission of
ln institution through a broad and inclusive definiion of eiversy

‘+ Understands and is able to navigate the complex contexts, cultures, and politics within
‘organizations that impact che implementation and management of effective diversity and
inclusivity change efforts

+ Experience-based knowledge of policies and procedures at ll levels of government
pertaining to accessibility, inclusion, and diversity:

‘+ Highly skilled in strategic planning, progeam development/management, and program

+ Master's degree

Preferred qualifications:
‘+A doctorate ina relevant field and diversity taining expevience/eredental:

‘+ Aminimum of five years of experience leading diversity work with evidence of
increasing responsibility.

APPENDIX |
Leeds & Grenville Immigration Partnership's
Brockville Cultural Business Ambassador Program (Pilot Proposal)

Brockville Cultural Business Ambassador Program: 2014-15 Pilot
July, 2018
Existing Program Overview

‘A Cultural Business Ambassador program exists in the City of Brockville, and the fllowing
points give an overview of its featute, and also, ideas fr the futute ofthe program.

+ program has had up to 125 Ambassadors

+ Communications with Ambassadors has included social media updates, e-newsletters,
‘hone and email communiations, invitations o forums, manufacturing roundtables,
And updates a City related committee meetings.

‘+ these communications ae not happening frequently enough they should accu at
least once/month to keep the ‘atraction goal atthe frefont of Ambassadors’ minds.
‘A communications plan may help to accomplish this task. An annual event fr all
‘Ambassadors and relevant players would be hepful for fostering program momentum,

‘+ the Economic Developmen office is and should remain che main point of contact for
Ambassadors other contacts ie. Camber of Commerce willbe provided based on need

+Business Ambassadors currently consist of business owners (immigrant and non-
Jmmigran), young local professionals, general public, teachers, international students,
prospects, clients, developers etc.

+ Euggeston isto have 1 Business Ambassador pe local cultural group with one
‘additonal substitute per culture for broader outreach and backup, Economic
Development would like ro Bacome involved in wo events/eultue/year

+ commie toa program focused on Cultural Business Ambassadors ony, with the thought
‘of expanding to various sectors (young families, retirees etc) ata ater date

+ financial sources and time constraints ces challenges in gaining program momentum

+ socal media is likely the best way to build an awareness for the need of Business
‘Ambassadors in Brockville

+ ambassadors can provide a role inthe evaluation ofthe program and determining it
Success lve. Their role can also extend to the aftercare and retention of new arrivals,

+ eis imporean to discuss the possibility of educational contacts as Ambassadors for the
City a5 they area gateway to new immigrants

‘+ the best yay to recruit an Ambassador isa personal ask by the right person. The who
nd when’ needs tobe identified,

+ roundkable discussion with existing contacts would help to identify addtional
individuals

‘+ the selection of Ambassadors shouldbe by a task group formed to assess thelr
‘qualifications and potential contributions. The process would mirror that of
applicaton/interview process fra new employee.

Purpose of Cultural Business Ambassador Program

“The bones of Brockville Cultural Business Ambassador (BCBA) program are in place, but
additional efores attention could formalize the program into one that produces an increased

Page 108 of 116

Page 104 of 116

‘number of leads being directed to Economic Development staff and a corresponding ise of
investment in the community

‘The BCBA program wil enable identified Ambassadors to spread the word about the postive
attributes ofthe community, and promote the City of Brockville asa smart place to invest.

The best way to land immediate credibly oan iestment location and make it stand out
‘hoe the erode with a recommendation or access story fom pee
Ambassadors: Your Secret Marketing Weapon. EDAC White Paper Seles, June 2009,

Proposed Steps for Program Development
Recruitment of Cultural Business Ambassadors

Ambassadors could be allo one ofthe fllowing:

‘+ Leaders from business and the community holding strong afillations with local
cultural communities and possibly, provincial national or international associations/
‘organizations. Access to their contacts, membership privileges and attendance a trade
‘hows is importa

+ High profile cultural community members (past and present) with recognition and
ceebilty beyond the community

+ Former local cultural community members who can promote the community in their
new place of residence

‘+ Acultural community member who has a pasion forthe community and have
{demonstrated their commitment toi through thet involvement and support fr local

How to Recruit:

‘Determine what local cultural communities the City would ike ro develop futher
relationships with (Indian, Chinese, Grek, Flipno, Pakistani, Vietnamese et)

“+ Brainstorm list of potential Ambassadors (I of 2 key members represent each culcura
‘community; do they meet the criteria listed above?

‘+ Determine best way to request their invelvement in the program (personal request
‘mall tz public information event etc), and how they should indicate cheir interest
(application process, verbal ‘ok e:)

+ Evaluate applications (fst, determine evaluation process)

+ Connect with chosen Ambassadors and invite them to training/orientation session,

Development of Tools and Training ($ indicates need for financial resources)

{© Training sessions forall new Ambassadors (one on one with Economic Development
staf, group sessions etc) to give overview af Brockville benefits, how to communicate
‘with ED staf regarding leads/ollow up etc, understanding key information about City
(any marketing strategies, upcoming/hot opportunities et)

{New web page outlining BCBA program could stem from Economic Development
‘age on City of Brockville website. Web page could include Ambassador profes,
Information about how ro joinprogeam, benefits of joining, roles and responsibilities of
Jan Ambassador ec, list of op 5 reasons to choose Brockville et.

{Summary of important information/populat FAQs about Brockille—print out and oft
‘copies made available, easily acessibe online resources for when they ate travelling.
‘Obtain feedback rom Ambassadors—what information do they need?

§ Brockville business card with photo, contact details of Ambassador, back of cad could
‘contain top $ reasons to invest in Brockville

§ Lapel pin or other means to identity them as Ambassadors

Identify opportunites for Ambassadors to use reference tools (listed above) in a
networking and educational capacity and to connect Economic Development staff with
their networks
"As Economic Development staf want to become involved in loal cultural evens via
“Ambassadors these opportunites shoul also be identified andthe role of City staff
‘should be secured
‘+ Ambassadors shouldbe the ones to identify networking opportunities (ade shows,
‘conference, industry publications, conferences et) and commie to their roles at each
+ Ensure Economic Development saff know ofthese commitments and touch base with
‘each Ambassador prior, and following events, Ensure Ambassador has materials and
support che need to represent Brockville wel

Involving Ambassadors in prospecting
‘Ambassadors wil provide Economic Development staff with leads from their networking
forts
+ dealy, the Ambassadors will also become involved with follow up meetings,
familiarization touts ec. which will provide a familia face to prospective investors,
‘encouraging deeper discussions and further questions et,

‘Ongoing communications with Ambassadors is critic
for them,

"Develop a simple communications plan with timelines and roles of varios players ie
Economic Development staff.

+ Good idea to share Ambassador success stories with other Ambassadors inspire and
‘encourage their commitment. (Dedicate a section of the e-newsletter tothe Ambassador
program?)

+ Seok local media coverage to highlight Ambassador successes,

to keep the program top-of-mind

Recognizing Ambassadors
Publicly acknowledging Ambassador efforts is critcal—media, recognition events and
‘the offering of special events for networking opportunities are options to recognize
Ambassador efforts
{Wall of Ambassadors—name on permanent wall plague at City Hall/Economic
Development office.

Program Evaluation
+ Prior to program initiation, determine key performance indicators,
+ Who will be involved wih che evaluation? Ambassadors? Economic Development staf?
LIP Working Group?

Page 105 of 116

Page 106 of 116

Step 1: Recruitment—A Fall Information Session?

‘To promote the upcoming Cultural Business Ambassador Program, an event could be hosted
by the City chat would

‘+ Promote the program: to potential Ambassadors, and the general public

+ Entice potential Ambassadors to become invoied via the provision of information|
regarding the benefits involved with becoming an Ambassador, program goals, rool and
supports available to Ambassadors

‘+ Provide an opportunity to apply othe program: have application forms availble,
relevant staff to answer questions about program

‘Who?

‘+ Lead/Host: City of Brockville (Economic Development staff)

+ LIP Working Group Members & Secretariat: Will provide support a required.
‘Secretariat could speak to the benefits of pilot program in Brockville and how the
‘template willbe offered to additional Leds & Grenville communities inthe future,
Importance of atracting and retaining newcomers et

+ Additional community partners: Depending onthe size and scape ofthe even, others
“uch asthe Small Business Enterprise Centre and Chamber of Commerce could be
Jnvolved/in attendance, to show suppor for program and local businesses.

‘+ Mayor/poltical players To show support for program and local businesses

+ Existing Ambassadors; Could invite someone like Bhagwant Parmar to speak about his
positive experiences as an Ambassador and businessperson,

When?
‘+ October (keep election in mind) or November
+ Breakfast, lunch, after work, dinner? What time slot works best for business owners and
“others who may be inerested?

Where?
+ Brockville Convention Cenee?

Costs
‘+ Refreshments and venue rental
+ Printing of draft Business Ambassador packages (Info hole, application forms,
‘examples of business carde ete)
+ Promotions via media

APPENDIX J
Participants Other than Local Immigrant Entrepreneurs
Community Kati Nolan Line B. Lsnnum
Ezonamic Development Consular Officer, Royal
Dawn Edgely Officer, Ministry of Norwegian Embassy, Ottawa,
‘Age Frenaly Broce Agviulture, Food and Rural Ontario
Intative, fas, Kemptuil, Ontario
City of Brockvile, Ontario Immigration Services
Karen Poste
Kimberly Heath Manager, Economic and Jie Case
Senior Pastor, Wall test Strategic Inatves, ity of Settlement Worker,
United Church, Brockvile, _—Bllvil, Ontario TR Leger Immigrant
ontario Services! TR Leger Services
Kara Tener au migrant,
Matthew Raby Project and Commurity Brochlle, Ontario
Executive Director, Upper Engagement Coordinator,
(Canada Leger Cente for Local immigration Loretta Corbeil
Education and Training, Partnership, Smiths Fal, Project Coordinator,
Brockile, Ontario ontario Leeds & Grenvile
Immigration Partnership,
Economic Development Ana Weir Brockile, Ontario
Municipal Economie Development
Manager, United Counties of Michael Haris
Neil Carbone Leeds & Grenvile, Gracie, Executive Director,
Director of Community Ontario KEYS Jeb Centre,
Development, Kingston, Ontario
Prince Edward County, Embassies &
ontaro Chambers of Commerce Melissa Francis
Project Manager, Leeds
Ctl Cooper Bruce Shapico {Grenville Immigration
Manager of Economie President, The Canada Partnership, rockile, Ont
Development, ‘Arica Chamber of Business,
Smiths Falls, Ontario Toronto, Ontario Bill Macher:
Trade Commissioner and
‘Amber Cotile M. Hakan Cengiz InfoCentre Manager, Global
(Communications and Counsell, Turkish Embassy _Affas Canada, Toronto, Ont
(Community Engagement in Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario
Coerinator, Local Madelaine Nerenberg
Immigration Partnership, Frank Hartmann Program Manager, immigrant
Smiths Falls, Ontario Culture and Communication, Services, KEYS Jeb Cente,
Embassy of the Federal Kingston, Ontario
Mat Gimer Republic of Germany, Oana,
anemic Development Ontario Special Thanks to:
Cerinaor, Municipal of
North Greil Maarten den Ouden Al participants
Kemptvile, Ontario Trae office, Kingdom of _ Jeanette Johnston
the Netherlands in Canada, Wendy Onstin
Doug Malanka Toronto, Ontario Peter Au
Mayer, Township of Augusta, ‘Sue Watts
ontario Daphne Lane
‘lice Wang

Page 107 of 116

Page 108 of 116

APPENDIX K
List of Participants/Participant Demographics
Toe eS Se = =

(25 an immigrant. While some Tvslogee Brosh

eusebeyreapenin Patra

tiecurtyiingena [Sioa

tenn di ot ee ‘Businesswoman of 40s | Lebanon 20 ‘University | ‘Child of refugees!

“did nck settidentity a8 an jorsanization
(eae aes ea so
os ae seas ‘Eason Epa ses
a
Fea hes Stein

(he Second un)


Page 109 of 116

MAP
Brockville, Ontario, Canada

ata ough hatiany
epdted dure City

‘Sere byt international
ges to New Yo tte,
roca sete by
ighay 401, te msiest
nigny i Nah Ameen
cppertunty for recreton


Page 110 of 116

NOTES.

Page 111 of 116

NOTES.

Page 112 of 116

oo oo
BROCKVILLE

Page 118 of 116

November 29, 2016

REPORT TO FINANCE, ADMIN. AND OPERATIONS COMMITTEE ~ DEC. 7, 2016

2016-157-12 COUNCILLOR D. LESUEUR, CHAIR
ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES BROCKVILLE RAILWAY
RAILWAY TUNNEL PHASE 2 TUNNEL COMMITTEE
C.J, COSGROVE, DIRECTOR
‘OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT .
RECOMMENDED .

THAT MTBA Associates Inc. be retained to develop concepts for the former railway :
lands northeast of Wiliam and Brock Streets, including a public consultation process,
for a fee of $84,764.85 plus HST; and

‘THAT this expenditure be charged to account 9701101-9037001

PURPOSE

‘The purpose of this report is to retain an architectural fim to prepare design concepts
for the former railway lands at the north end of the Railway Tunnel,

ANALYSIS

Phase 2 of the Railway Tunnel project will be the development of the former railway
lands northeast of Wiliam and Brock Streets. It is envisioned to include parking for cars
land tour buses, a multi-purpose building for tourism/performing arts/meeting space/tour
train administration, and other railway themed and heritage context-sensitive structures.
and displays (see Attachments 1 and 2).

‘A Request for Proposals was issued for architectural fims to develop at least three
conceptual plans for the property, and to facilitate consultation with the public and
stakeholders in order to ultimately propose a final concept plan with a construction cost
estimate.

Proposals were received from Barry Padolski Associates Inc. ($104,585), Civitas,
‘Architecture Inc. ($45,000), MTBA Associates Inc. ($84,764.85) and +VG Architects
($49,440). The proposals were evaluated based on company and principal staff
experience (10%), project team (20%), references (5%), understanding of project
objectives (15%), quality of approach and work plan (15%), schedule, and level of effort
(18%) and cost (20%).

‘The proposal from MTBA Associates Inc. received the highest ranking.

Page 114 of 116
2016-187-12
‘Architectural Services ~ Railway Tunnel Phase 2 Page 2

POLICY IMPLICATIONS,

‘The Purchasing By-Law (090-2005) and Procedure No. 1012 require Council approval
for the retention of a consultant following the receipt of written proposals for all
assignments in excess of $30,000.

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS

$400,000 has been raised towards the Phase 2 project $240,000 has been paid,
‘$60,000 is in pledges and $100,000 is a grant from a senior level of government. The
grant can be used to cover the cost ofthis assignment.

CONCLUSION

MTBA Associates Inc. should be retained to develop concepts for the former railway
lands northeast of Wiliam and Brock Streets,

‘Councillor D. Lesueur, Chair C.J. Cosgrove, Dir
Brockville Railway Tunnel Committee Operations Departryent

am SS
D. Dick CPA CA B Casselman

Director of Corporate Services City Manager

SHPHCPH 525

conti (DER
‘THE RAILWAY BRIDGE

GHP EH Goes

NORTH END OF THE RAILWAY TUNNEL AND THE ADJACENT PROPERTY

